---
James Maury to Ann Maury, 11 March 1798. Manuscripts and Archives Division, The New York Public Library. "James Maury letters" New York Public Library Digital Collections. Accessed November 25, 2017. http://digitalcollections.nypl.org/items/3194e550-c3c6-0133-8e92-00505686d14e
---

66

Liverpool 11 Mar 98

I have long been favored with my dear Nancy’s ltrs both of which were by the same opportunity & I ought to have acknowledged them sooner

I thank my sister for the affectionate Manner in which she speaks of my Change of Condition. I am much pleased to find what I had sent you proved to acceptable.

My Brothers also acquaints me with my niece’s marriage in the way you mention it. My love to her. I have sent her something towards Housekeeping by the same Vessell in which are the Trifles you desired. all to the care of my Brother Fontaine.

Why is it that my amicable Aunt Tildy is not also disposed of? It is then to no purpose that, in the late [BIssextile] I took Care to have her accounted for the occasion! But probably all is for the best.

I am truly concerned at the declining health of our much beloved parent. Her Remarks tho’ on her son’s marrig are so much in the old way, that 

if you had not mentioned herr good spirits I shd have been satisfied of her retaing them; for which I am thankful 

Surely I should have been most highly gratified at being a fifty of yr affc Circle: and altho I have nothing of the sort directly in view at present, yet as unlikely Events have come about. 

Your nephew comes on Finely and (as other people say it, so) I suppose he is a promising Boy. At present he appears to me more to resemble his [Lay] in Miss Braby than any other person. He & his mother have been for some weeks in the neighborhood of Kendal a Visit of Affection & Condolence on the death of her eldest, to the remaining sister. I expect them Home this Week. Here or not she ever joins me in affc Wishes to you. yr affc Bror

JM

Pr the Becky for Baltimore

sailed [31] March

Miss Ann Maury
