---
title: James Maury to Maria Mason, 10 May 1796
---

39

Per Molly via Phila

Liverpool 10 May 96

Mrs Maria Mason

Loudon County Virginia

I am greatly indebted by my dear sister any [illegible] & present her my best thanks for them; truly answered by the first, to find there had been more occasions for [illegible] than the one I had attributed to it & now equally delighted to me by the last, that you were in the Enjoyment of such good Health & spirits, which I pray may be long [presinded] to you!

These affec proofs of my sisters goodness to me are gratifying *indeed*! answer must be the continuance of them

I see you already [?] with the Dispositions of the pret City, & no wonder either, at that or your party for the [weather] abode of Raspberry Plain, where I hope this will reach you.

I am greatly obliged by my Mother-in-law [lts] which I answer by this oppy also, as to what she is pleased to say about my return; the warm interest she takes in what concerns me is a most flattering proof of her partiality.

Whether I shall return or not is rather doubtful. *She* with whome I wished to have returned, & whom I most ardently desired to have returned to you, *is gone!* I have now seen *half a century!* I may however come over some Time or other to see you all.

I prsent my Love to Bob & Besty. It has been a matter of no little surprise & some mortification that I have not yet heard of either of them being married. Tell both of them if you please, that they are losing time.

I pray you will be so good as remember me in the most affc manner to my nephews & nieces, [pay] me, if you please, their names & ages.

The last ltr you sent me related in much to the Miss Rustons that I sent it to them. Miss M, contrary to all Calculation, still lives, but really in a contained & [/} increasing malady, which, in all probability, must soon relieve her. They all are very partiuclar in their [Engicies] of you.

Pray tell me who is [?] at Alexandria. I owe my Bror S.T.M. much on this score. I will, if I can, try to pay him now. If not, make my best Excuses & that I hold in due remembrance his kindness. Adieu my sister!

JM