---
title: James Maury, Liverpool, to Mary Armistead, Loudon County Virginia, 8 May 1796
---

37

Per Molly via Phila 

what related per George

Liverpool 8 May 96

Mrs Mary Armistead

Loudon County Virgia

Honored Madam

I ought sooner to have acknowledged your affectionate letter of October. I pray you will be so good as excuse this seeming inattention, assuring you that, I then considered myself greatly obliged to you as I now do for the farther instance of your goodness to me in your kind letter of 1 Feby which I received only three days ago.

The subject of the first returns to me those afflicting recollections which prevent me from saying more than that I entirely and thankfully approve what you propose with regard to the remains of her whose memory must be dear to me while I live.

As I grow older I become less fond of writing letters & especially long ones; but as you desire it, I will surely endeavour to become a more frequent correspondent even if my letters be short.

In answer to your wish of retaining the Family in Question, I desire by this same opportunity my good friend Mr. Lewis to have you accomodated in the way most agreeable to yourself. 

I am thankful for the enjoyment of good health & as good spirits as I usually had. My nephew a man & woman servant with myself constitute my whole family.

Poor Mr Anderson! I suppose you knew had left us, after a most tedious, & one of the most afflicting, illnesses that ever befel man! dying for Months by Inches of a Cancer, the uninterrupted & excruciating pains of which appear almost unparalleld! I have lately received letters from Mrs. Anderson, who had been also much indisposed; but is getting better.

I present my affc remembrance to Bob & Betsy I am truly

Your Sincere Friend & dutiful Son in Law

James Maury