---
title: James Maury, Liverpool, to S. T. Mason, Philadelphia, 13 September 1795. New York Public Library.
---

Liverpool 13 Sepbr 1795

S. T. Mason Esqr

Phila

On the 24 July I wrote a few lines to you pr the Alexandria. I am since favored with your letter of 30th June.

I was in London last May, when I was let into the Secret of the Tenor of this 12th Article. my friend there then joined me in opinion that It would not go down in the U.S. I now see we thought as you regretting extremely that such an article should have been. Altho the Sovereign certain reserves the Right of confirming the acts of their Minister, yet it is so very unusual not to do so, that we are placed in a new and rather embarrassing 

18

situation from the circumstances & I wish all may end well.

With this go some Newspapers, and, during the Session, I shall every now & then aim at you there a Courier. Long ere this reaches you will have heard much more of British Spoliations than you knew on the 30th June. For some Months back Neutral Bottoms provision laden for France have been brought into the ports of this Country & the Cargoes taken out without Ceremony. The dread of Famine here perhaps more than the wish to create [one] there may have been the motive of these outrages; but now there seems to  be no fear of want in either Country, as you Gentlemen Farmers must soon feel from the difference of prices in your own produce - Indian Corn is fallen from 13/6 to 4/6 the Bushel & Wheat from 22/ / 70 to 10/0  One of these papers mentions a revocation of the Order for Bringing in neutral provision-laden Vessels bound to France.

And this is all the authority I have for it as yet - 

[19]

hearing that the whole family have removed from Serenity to Loudon it ocurs to me as highly probable that it may be most agreeable to the Black people to remain together. I have no objection to disposing of my part of them and will immediately empower my friend Mr. James Lewis to treat with you for them, refering to him for particulars. He shall also be desired to have you accomodated with Laeticia & her child as you mention.

I present my best wishes to you and all around you

I am your friend

James Maury

Pr Aurora via Phila.