---
title: James Maury to David Rees, 14 May 1795. New York Public Library
---

Liverpool 14th May 1795

Mr. David Rees

No 270 Mkt St Phila

Dr Sir

I have your obliging favors of 5 Nov & 4th March. I am very much obliged by your calling on my relations in Loudon, as will as for the particular account you give me of them which indeed was the first I had had for some time. Since this our Correspondence has been revived and we hear from each other now and then for which I also consider myself in some degree your debtor.

Previous to your letter I had heard much of the popularity of my Bros S.T.M - accept my best thanks for your news papers by Cap Clay as well as the Peach Brandy, alto it was left behind. another time.

The other day there was a dividend in Loudon to the Creditors of Burton &Co of 2/6 pr pound. my friend there received for your claim L25 - We expect in a few days a second dividend here to the Creditors of Caldwell &Co when I will represent you and do the needful annexed you have a Statement of your account the Balance whereof is at your disposal

You really amaze me at the Expenses of living your City - in this place things are not so much advanced as one might have expected from the immense increase of cost of provisions and Taxes, wheat, had been 22/4/70 Indian Corn 13 Bush now the latter even at 3p The consequence will be severely felt by many of the Corn dealers

Altho we now meet with scarecely any avowed  advocates for the war, yet some how or other it goes on smoothly enough - the Ministers propositions for loans are not only accepted readily but really great competition for preference among the money holders. The French Career goes on unabated. The Campaign in Italy is but just commenced yet in this short space three signal Victories have so entirely done up the King of Sardinia, that he has prayed for a Truce until peace can be made which I suppose is now concluded.

For near two years past I have entirely drawn myself from the [Norley] of Politics - thus consider myself a mere (alien) Spectator.

Your friends here are I think pretty much as you left them. I am so being in the same place. 

I am your friend &c

J Maury

account on other side

1 pr George for Alexandria
2 [?] for Phila 

 