---
James Maury to Stevens Thomson Mason, November 15, 1796. MssCol 1917. New York Public Library.
---

[letterbook page 57]

Liverpool Novr 15, 1796

My Dear Sir

I have just begun to send you some [Ltrs] which I propose continuing by every opportunity during the Session, in Hopes of their reaching you at Philadelphia.

Since my being Consul for this port I have, from Time to Time, incurred Expences, in Consequence of the Situation beyond what the Consular Act prescribes. For Which I had requested of the Secretaries of State to endeavor to procure me Reimbursement. I have received none. I now determine on applying to the Fountain Head by a Memorial to the House of Representatives, which I send to my friend Mr. Ralph Eddowes requesting him to apply to you or Mr. Madison as either of you may be on the Spot - in which Case, I pray your good Offices in having it properly presented.

In the Course of a Fortnight it is probable we may be able to from some opinion on the Issue of Lord Malmbury's Negotiation for Peace at Paris - In the present Stage of the Business all is mere Conjecture.

Last summer I informed our good Mother-in-Law of my Intention of again become a Married Man & the Event took place in August. Were it necessary to make an *Apology* for reentering the state *so late in the day*, I should merely tell you to account for it from my having experienced so much Happiness in it with that inestimable Woman you once knew.

Mrs. M. joins me most sincerely in best wishes for you & yours

I am your Friend & Servant

James Maury

Stephens T. Mason Esqr

In Congress

Phildelphia