---
title: James Maury, Liverpool, to James Lewis, Fredericksburg Virginia, 20 September 1795. New York Public Library.
---

20

Liverpool 20 Septr 1795

Mr. James Lewis

Fredg Virgia 

My dear friend!

I again beg leave to trouble you on the subject of my letter of 24th March. Mr Mason some time ago, expressed a wish to become proprietor of my Portion of Mr Armisteads Estate. In answer I declined the Measure for that time but understanding since that all the family are [reid] in Loudon and the negroes there also I presume it must be most agreeable to them to remain together. I therefore now request you to treat with him for them. I want but the fair Value, which you may fix  as you see fit. payment will be acceptable in Cash any of the Stocks of the United States Shares in the Banks, in the Potowmac or James River canal navigations or Bonds negociatble at the Bk. Mr Mason requests that, in case Laeticia be mine he may purchase he & her Child. In consequence of her being married to one of his people. In this I request him be accomodated let him also have the preference of offer for the whole. If he decline it and you could dispose of them to one person so as to give them equal content I wish it done, but I would by no means have them separated or sold in a distant quarter contrary to their inclinations on Making the Right you must receive the payment as before mentioned - for this Trouble I propse to you a Coma of 5 pCent & if that be not enough you shall be contented. I suppose there must be something due for their hire - receive that also, & when you sell them, present each with a hat blanket & suit of Clothes.

Our nephew joins me in affc remembrance to you & my sister

your aff fd & Bror

James Maury