---
title: James Maury to Stevens Thomson Mason, 17 may 1796
---

pr the Swan Glasier via Phila

Liverpool 17 May 1796

S. T. Mason Esq

I am indeed greatly indebted to you my good friend in this way: there now lying before me no less than three of your kind letters. namely 26 Octo 10 Decr & 4th March during the winter I did frequently put up packets of News Papers for you but, almost all the Vessels in this port being wind bound hear four months, probably they would all pour upon you in a lump - My reason for sending two papers only in each packet was the idea that your priviledge of exemption from postage did not do beyond that weight was I right

I see this unfortunate treaty still hard of digestion. I am of the number who sincerely regret *it ever having been* but *being* I humbly conceive it should take effect how far Mr Adams may have mended it. I shall be much obliged to you to inform me.

In answer to what you so civilly say of my return, I request to refer you to a paragraph in my letter to my sister of the 10th Inst. 

Accept my best thanks for your very interesting information on the Canals & Banks with the requests that you will be so good as continue them as you shall do me the favor of writing. We have frequently proposed being better correspondents, & you are so indeed. I will try to be so likewise notwithstanding what I have said to our good Mother-in-Law on the subject.

Altho' nowadays we seldom meet in this place with an avowed advocate for the continuance of the War: yet it seems to go on smoothly enough. The minister propositions for Loans are not only accceded to, but really much competition among the monied men for the preference. The french have opened the Campaign with a Witness - three Splendid Victoried in the course of a few days have so entirely *done up* the King of Sardinia that he has prayed an Armistice untill peace can be made, which I daresay is at this Moment. Thus another of the *Would be* partitioners of France has met with his deserts. This supposed he will, by this treaty, be metamorphised into the Ally of the Rebulick  *Offensive & Defensive* nor does it seem unlikely that it may not yet be converted into a peace with the Emperor of a *separate* one also - then this country may have the Honor of carrying on the War *without partners*

Wheat is become abundant and falling almost  daily - Indian Corn down to 3/- p [Winches] Bushel. I hold in Thankful remembrance your presents of the pamphlets & whenever any thing shall occur that I think would please, I shall endeavor to return the Civility. 

My affc remembrance to my Sister the children and all friends 

I am 

your Servant

J Maury

By the enclosed say annexed account there appears to have been due to me the triple of L3.1.11 1/2 wch at your concienence you may pat to Cha Johnson of Baltimore or Ralph Eddowes of Phialdelphia

Your JM

1788

Feby 23 Good p Alexandria 19.10.9
Aqs proceeds 2 Hhds Tobo 16.8. 9 1/2
 L 3.1.11 1/2