---
title: James Maury, Liverpool, to Stephens Thomson Mason, Loudon County, Virginia, 25 February 1795
---

10

Lpool 25 Feby 95

Stephens T. Mason

Lesburg & Loudon County Virga

My dear Sir

To the [Uncertainty] of the times I attribute the miscarriage of yr ltrs pregious to that of 9th last Aug the only one I have had the pleasure of receiving from you in a *long long* time.

I thank you & our Bror Robert for what you so obligingly say on the subject of preference on the Division of the Negroes of Mr. Armistead's Estate. For myself, I have no preference. I have informed my Bror M [and] Mr James Lewis to represent me on the occassion & shall be perfectly satisfied with whatever yourselves [illegible]

I am not [entirely] what to do with them at present father than that I shall most certainly endeavor so to arrange as to afford these every accomodation their [limitation] may entitle them to, and in case I should disposed to sell them I surely should be aware to averse to separating them unless it should be their own [design]

I expect you will have received [several] lrts from me last summer on the most afflicting of all subjects! I will do the best I can toward a better report of it

11

our correspondence; but in truth the interval between your last ltr & any *preceding* one had been almost an age. Far, tho, from attributing it to [neglect] I did merely impute it to your being greatly involved in Business. I shall instead address my ltrs to your at Leesburg, which, by the Establishment of the crop posts I see has a [regearpat] Town. My friends Gambler of Richmond, Lear of Washington, & Johnston of Baltimore will take Care of any ltrs for me committed to their [struck]Charge Care.

James M hopes our government will be able to fall on some substitute for the Excise: which I learn from its very design gave [unexamis] The very name is something against it.

Ever since the [Execution] of that [?] Creature Robespiere the French Government has [become more] popular over here. They go on increasing their Victories & Conquests - conducting themsleves with a Moderation wch does them Honor. This country certainly does want peace & unless they have better luck this Campaign it is not improbable they will have it.

The Views of Mr Jays [Mission] we understand, have been accomplished in a Treaty of Insurance [do]. It is not to be published here until returned ratified. the [?] had been made easy to [?] by the powerful [?nations] of our friend, Gneral Pichpeu Hoche Dusomier &c &c God bless them for it!

12

I am happy to see you continue to add to your own Happiness in the [struck: domestic way] family way & pray that every addition may be a fresh [?] of Comfort to you & my sister to whom I present my Love

I am yr Friend

[?] War too began the way for an early [?] are your enemy

Original pr Commerce via Baltimore