---
title: James Maury to Mrs Elizabeth Armistead Lacey, 22 March 1805. Manuscripts and Archives Division, The New York Public Library. "James Maury letters" New York Public Library Digital Collections. Accessed March 22, 2017. http://digitalcollections.nypl.org/items/2fd7fdc0-c3c6-0133-70fc-00505686d14e
---

(page 169)

Liverpool 26 March 1805

I am much obliged to you for your letter of 6 May, which, indeed, has been received a considerable time, but was long on the way hither. Whenever you can write, I shall be very thankful for the favor, for, after all, I [therefore] expereience teaches us that, in most cases, we best love those we [2 words] known, & 'tis for this we ever are so feelingly interested in the concerns of those with whom we have been in habits of the earliest intimacy.

the account you give me is the first I had of the death of that excellent woman, whose memory will be dear to me while I live.

Previous to your own information, I had heard of your having become a married woman, & am much gratified with what you say on the subject. I see you already count two sons and a daughter, which I hope will prove so many blessings to you & Mr. Lacey.

I wish our brother Robert to avail of the good advice you give him, & once more become an happy married man. Indeed he is too young to remain *alone*.

I forwarded your letter to Mrs. [Ravhees], who has acknowledged the receipt of it, & I make no doubt it has given her much pleasure.

The winter before last [I news] were afflicted by sickness, in a spell of most violent rheumatism than of ever experienced. For four months I was confined chiefly to my house, but it would appear as if this [illegible] has been of [illegible] for, during the last winter, I have been freer from ill-health than in any one of the many winters I have been in this country. Some of my friends indeed say I grow younger, but *I don't believe that*. I am however truly thankful for what I enjoy.

Since my last letter to any of your family, a little daughter has been added to mine & is become a very interesting member of it - lately commanded ~~walker &~~ talker & walker. my three lads are very well.

I wish to know more particulars of Mrs Mason's family. As matters used *to be ordered* in Virginia *in my time*, her eldest daughter might have well been in the way of making her mother a Grand-mother.

Mrs. M joins me in presenting our best wishes to you & Mr. Lacey, Mrs Mason, her family, & Robert.

yr aff Brother

J.M.

Mrs. Lacey Gochen Virginia under cover to her Husband Mr I. Lacey Merchant there

p Bristol Packet via Phila