---
title: James Maury to James Lewis, 11 May 1796. New York Public Library.
---

41

Liverpool 11 May 1796

pr Molly via Philadelphia 2 of George

Mr James Lewis

My good friend!

I have just received your kind letter of 2d Feby - after my [?] Condolence with you on the loss of your Bror I do as sincerely rejoice with you on the unexpectedly pleasing account of my dear sisters recovery: for which I am truly thankful. Tell her I hold in due remembrance her kind ltr.

I am mortified indeed at what you say of my sister M.A. I have just received a ltr from  Mrs Armistead requesting Corinna & three Children either by purchase or Exchange. My answer to her is "I desire by this same opportunity my good friend Mr Lewis to have you accommodated in the way most agreeable to yourself" I pray you to endeavor to do so. I am greatly obliged to you & Fontaine for your attention to me in this business. Go thro with it, if you please, as well as you can, *smoothly* tho', for indeed I would have you use no other means. When it be all ended or indeed as you go on, I request to hear from you [per lee here] my friend, you did right in not separating them. Without their own particular desire I could not have commented to their [spirited away]

42

By the Time you will have concluded this business, I think you will find the *laborer worthy of his hire*. [I never want] *something for nothing* therefore take as I have said. If it bee too much then then you & fontaine divide it. I have lately received so many letters from my friends & relations that I cannot, for the present, attend to all, farther than my love & affectionate remembrance, which I pray you to present. Adieu my friend!

JM

I have just recieved a very affecting & affc ltr from Mrs Mason. She is quite silent about the division as is also my bror S.T.M.

I wish you, without loss of Time, to invest the whole produce of these black people in the James river Canal buying in these as you recieve payment or bartering immediately the [objeations] of such I have on the list of arms you can - having my Name expediently intered up in the company's Books as proprietor - Tell me in what [turn and up] this undertaking is how & when it is likely to pay.