---
M Strachan to James Maury, November 29, 1800. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Box 3.
---

Brodie November 29th 1800

Mr Hide, out of this neighborhood, has this moment informed me that he intends to sail for Liverpool in a few days, he offers to take charge of a letter which must of course be short, as I have but a few moments notice. I will first thank you my Dearest Br for your attention to the spectacles I requested, the came safe by Mrs Brokenbrough, & answer extremely well, therefore are a great acquisition to my eyesight. I hope the promised long letter will come soon, as hearing from you & your little family are one of my favorite pleasures. I had the gratification of visiting our good friends in Albermarle last month we after talked of you, our Sr, & your sweet children, with a mixture of pleasure & pain, which seldom failed to produce a tear of affection at the recollection that such Dr connexions were never more to be embraced by those friends here who feel every thing that is tender & affectionate for them, our good Br Matt is better than he has been for some months, but his health is far from being established, but he is as cheerfull as ever, eats hearty, & sleeps well, & is I believe a happy man, our Dr Srs are well, Nancy looks as she has done for years, her situation becomes more & more agreeable & appears as much interested as if she was surrounded with her husband & children, for they all know her worth & treat her with affection & respect, our beloved Matilda has been in a very complaining stile for a few months past, which has reduced her to a moderate size, she is now recovered & we expect her to spend the best part of the winter with us. I visited our Br Ben when we were up, he appeard as usual, he was just about moving to his new habitation, which appeared to give our Sr much pleasure. They have six promising children our Br Fontaines distress you no doubt are acquainted with, the loss of his amiable & valuable wife added to his other misfortunes was a burthen almost too might for his fortitude, but I can with pleasure tell you that he has recovered himself very much of late & appears to be quite cheerful. the old Lady Mrs Brooke has his two youngest children his eldest Eliza lives with us, his second, Richard, with Mr Lewis, he & our Sr are pretty well, she would probably write but knows nothing of Mr Hides calling here. our Brs Abram & Richard are [well] & I hope doing well. I am gratified to have it in my power to tell you that my good man enjoys better health this fall than he has done fore years, God grant a continuance of it. I have siad nothing of our Sr at Burlington, but I believe she is as she has long been, & can say so much for herself that no one need speak for her. as Mr H will return in a few months I flatter myself we shall hear particularly from you. Kiss your James & William for  us & our Dr Sr too, & assure her that she & my Dr Br are affectionately loved by their Sr

M Strachan

Brodie 29 Novr 1800
Mrs M Strachan


Matt's Health  
Matilda  
Spectacles  
Benja &c  
Young Matt  
[Hill] House  
J Lewis  
[Hams]  
Springs  
T S improvement  
B Lewis  