---
Matthew Maury to James Maury, 9 June 1805. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. BoxX_187-
---

June 9 1805

My Dear Brother

Some time in March I received yours of the 6th of Nov last - This was the more pleasing, as I had not a Right to expected it, from a Consciousness of not deserving it; for I have often reproached myself for my Inattention & Negligence on the Score of writing to the best of brothers. For this I can offer no good Excuse but the want of Health, which I have experienced for near 6 years, which I hope will be deemed as sufficient Apology. This however (I thank God) has been better, since the last fall, than at any period since the Commencement of my Indisposition, & had I more youth on my Side, I might perhaps flatter myself with a perfect Recovery. But after so severe a Shock as my Constitution has received, at my Time of Day, these are hardly grounds for Hope.

Previous to the Receipt of your Letter, I had been informed by Fontaine of your Indisposition, & am pleased to hear from so good Authority as yourself, that it has eventuated so favorably to your Health. May you long continue to enjoy it, not only for your own sake, but also that of your rising Family! You gratify me with the favorable Account you give me of my Nephews, particularly my namesake, who you say so much resembles his Grandfather. I most sincerely wish he may prove as good & respectable a Man. At your stage of Life I doubt not but some painful Reflections some times occur from the [Improbability] of your seeing your Children reared to a confirmed state of Manhood, & such Maturity of Judgement as might secure them a a comfortable & respectable Passage thru Life. These Reflections are natural & have their due weight. But however it is wrong to indulge them in Anticipation so far as to produce any permanent [Disquietude] of Mind. Rather hope you may live as long & enjoy strength of mind, as your old Acquaintances Mr.s Davis & Dalton (about whom you so particularly enquire) have done. The former of these I saw three or four days ago at his own House (for I have made it a Rule for many years past to pay him a visit every spring & fall at least, till prevented by want of Health) his mind is still strong, but his bodily Powers much impaired. I think he cannot stay long with us. At parting he took a very affectionate & affecting leave & told me he expected it was to be his last Farewell. I named you to him as you desired in your Letter. He seemed gratifyed with your Attention & desired a Return of the Complements. He is in his 84th year. On the same trip I also heard from Mr Dalton by his son William, who had not long since been to see him. He is 20 years older than Mr Davis, & a much heartier Man. He now rides & walks a great Deal, & has for several years till the last attended to his Plantation Business himself without any Overseer. This you will say is an extraordinary Instance of Vigor & Strength at his Age. This and more other instances of longevity which occur in this Quarter have convinced me that the part of [our] country from a little below the Southwest Mountains to the foot of the Blue Ridge may be considered as the Montpelier of America - As a proof of this I will [sketch] to you the Ages of several, whom you once knew & may still remember. There is living in about 3 miles of me a Benjamin Pharis aged a hundred & six - whose age is registered - a hearty Man, saving that he has lost his Sight. his wife dyed last Winter aged 95. Old Micajah Clark, whom you remember, is in his 88th year - quite hearty & strong, [still] hunts kills deer. Robert Johnson between 95 & 100. Benjamin Speed 86, who still keeps school & is ~~still~~ in high Repute in his Line. Robert Sharpe 99 - John Thomas whom you well remember, is considerably above 86, & several times last summer walked 5 or 6 miles across the Mountains to my lower church. Old Mrs More is also still living & is about 90 years old. There are also several others I could name within a few miles between 80 & 90 years old. But there is an Instance of Longevity in the Clarkson family (some of whom you must remember about Carr's Low grounds) which if you will take Numbers into Consideration, is still more extraordinary. Of these there were 8 brothers & 5 sisters raised to be Men & Women - two of which (sisters) have dyed within less than two years - ~~the others~~ about midway between the oldest & youngest - the other eleven are living, & the youngest of them ~~are still~~ is sixty years old - this is a Fact not to be contested. & perhaps not to be paralleled in the World.

I mentioned above, that my own health has been better since last fall, than for nearly 6 years, since which I have believe I have never been 30 Miles from Home except a trip to the Springs, till last Month, when I ventured to Richmond to attend the Convention of the Episcopal Church of this State. On this Occassion there were near forty Members convened of whom my Colleagues Col John Walker (for the Convention consists of a Lay Member, with the Minister of each Parish) was the oldest Man, & myself the oldest Clergyman. Of the Clergy there were upwards of 20 in Convention, of whom Mr Waugh & Mr Bracken were the only two in Orders before the Revolution except myself. This circumstance afforded ample Matter for moralizing on the [fugam Temporis & Vita Brevitatem] Whilst at Richmond I lodged in the same House with Judges Lyson, Carrington, & Fleming - It was pleasing to see three men of their Ages so hearty & cheerful. They all inquired after you & desired to be named to you.    Col Fontaine our Relation was a Member of the Convention, who informed me you had applyed to him for the History of our Family written by our Great Grandfather Fontaine, which was in my Possession, & desired me to forward it to you. I yesterday sent it by a trusty waggoner to the Care of Overton Anderson with a Request to him to forward it to you by the first safe Conveyance.

In a Letter to some of the Family you desire to be informed of the ages of our Grandfathers & Grandmothers - I think Nancy has given you the Register of our Grandfather Walkers Age - I know he dyed in his 32d year, as did his Brothers, Thomas & Benjamin. Our Grandmother Tunstall was born in 1705 & dyed 1788 - Our grandfather Maurys I know dyed in 1751; and I think I remember to hear our father say he was in his 71st year. Our Grandmothers Birth you will find in the Family History - She dyed the last day of the year 1755.

The Balce I owed you - say £33:55:5 1/4 Virginia Currency, has been applyed as you directed - The application was very reasonable for it was greatly wanted. I have been much mortified at its having been so long unpaid - I had twice made arrangements for discharging it by a shipment of Tob., but had been in both Instances disappointed. Had your Letter come to hand two hours later, I should have sent Money by Tom (who was just setting off to Richmond) to purchase a Bill of exchange for the purpose of discharging it. It has not been for the Want of Inclination (I can assure you) that this Debt has so long remained unpaid.

I still continue my School, tho I have last year reduced the Number to Six, & am determined not to exceed it. You will say, perhaps, it is time to quit the Business. I think so myself - for I am conscious to myself, I am not *qualis eram* in this Line - Tho' it appears other People do not think so, for I have more applications to take Boys than at any Period since I engaged in this Business - I have them from Philadelphia to Charleston - & from Norfolk to Kentucky. However, if I live to carry John thro, I have serious thoughts of declining the Business altogether; but have some Doubts whether I shall not find it necessary to continue it. For my Family is still arge & expensive, perhaps too much so to be supported by the Profits of the Farm, which, it is presumable will decrease with the Strength & Activity of its owner.

Matt follows the Business to which he was bred, & I believe does tolerably well - Tom has qualified himself for the Bar, but like most other young Men, who have not great Talents & Application [both] I believe does but little (for this Profession is overcharded extremely) His head Quarters are here.

Fontaine, after finishing his second course last Summer at Wm & Mary, took a Birth in Col Wilson Nicholas Family as a private tutor, at £100 a year - This would have been thought high Wages for a Young Man, when you & I were [young] - I believe, he, at present thinks of [prorecing] this Business as the Means of making a Livelyhood & it fully meets my Approbation. For I think, all things considered, it is preferable to either Law or Physick. Unless I am partial or Mistaken he is a Lad of most amiable Disposition & Manners, & I rather suppose, has the best Talents of any of my Sons - He has for 12 months past had a complaint in his Breast, which I apprehend serious Consequences from; but it appears this Spring to be wearing off. 

Reuben has been for about two years at work with a Carpenter - He has had the good fortune or the Prudence to great Favourite in every Family in which he has worked. He is likewise so with his master, who passes very high Encomiums on his Temper & Manners, & Genius for the Business in which he is engaged. John is still with me at School. He by no Means appears to want Understanding, but from a giddy heedless Disposition makes but a very bad Progress. He often remind me of his Uncle [T] Walker For I think there is a great Similarity in their Turn of Mind - particularly a fondness for Fun & any thing new. I am as yet quite undetermined & at a Loss what to do with him.

I yesterday dined with our old Friend J. Walker - & mentioned what you say respecting the proposed Match - He & Mr [Melon] observed, that the Connexion may be more [extensive] than you have contemplated, for that there are two Daughters for your sons & a son for your Daughter - what is thought or talked of in jest often comes to pass - & why may it not be the Case in the present Instance? 

I have not seen our Friend Col Morris for five or six weeks which is not often the Case for there are very few of my [early] friends & acquaintances that I value as much but I heard from him to day by Letter - He is well - & has for about twelve months last enjoyed better health than he has usually done for several years. Tho' he has been extremely distressed for about two years past first with the Death of his Lady - about 9 Months after that of his Youngest son Overton - a young Man - & about 10 months after that of his eldest son Richard, who it is said was his Favourite. This last stroke bore extremely heavy on him, os much that I really was apprehensive he would have sunk under it (for I was frequently to see him during the season of affliction) However he seems to have recovered his spirits tolerably well. He is as industrious as ever. 

I was at our Brother Abrams about a week ago - He & family were well - I was then informed of a Match being likely to be made up between his Eldest Daughter, Nancy & a son of Mr Fry, a Widower with two Children - which has since taken Place. Your friend Mr Fry (the old Gentleman) enquired very particularly after you - he has been for about a year in bad Health, & app