---
W[ade?] Hampton, Woodlands, to James Maury (Buxton via) Liverpool, 4 August 1806, copy in the hand of Thomas Bigland. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Box X imgs 214-215
---

Woodlands 4 Augt 1806

James Maury Esqr

Sir

Agreeably to their references, I have received all your esteemed favors to the 10th of June inclusive. I consider your operations in the Sale of my Cotton to have been perfectly judicious. Some of the prices have, to be sure, been low, but in all these cases the quantities are small. Should you obtain even 18d for the balance of my shipments I shall not have lost by making them. I observe what you say respecting Messrs H M &co and also upon the subject of sales generally - The liberality of your remarks, as they respect these Gentlemen, cannot be questioned, but I doubt the justice of them to the general extent at least, to which they seem to go. What you say appears perfectly reasonable & proper, at all seasons but that at which the arrival of the new Crop *is certain*. Before this period the old Stock ought in all cases to change Masters, unless the agent should find himself limited, or restricted, in some way or other. What his *expectations* might have been, as directed to a more distant time, can never be of consequence to a judicious Planter. He will expect & require his Sales to be done before the end of November. If not for the price expected, or wished, for the best that can be obtained. These remarks will apply with peculiar force to the present juncture, as the new Crop of Upland, will be found an abundant one, & it has been preceeded by two short ones. I hope & trust you will be governed by it on all occasions in the future, unless expressly otherwise advised.

If I am so fortunate as to find a ready conveyance, my first shipment, to a considerable extent, will be the earliest, perhaps, that was ever made of a new Crop. I have devoted myself for two or three years to the closest personal attention to my Planting pursuits, & having the whole scale of my business immediately under my eyes within one inclosure, I trust that it will be seen I have profited by my attention.

Finding the New Orleans Cotton easier cleaned & of a longer Staple I have got almost wholly into that Seed. I have made a vast improvement in the means of getting in a Crop of Cotton, of which I shall say more in some future letter. But the great advantage is in preventing the injury to the staple by its remaining so long in the field. In an *innovation* however, I must rely very much upon your assistance to give effect & success to it. It is not of small importance in a pecuniary view, but of much more as it respects my feelings. Instead of Sacking, as heretofore, my whole Crop will come to market packed in Boxes  4 feet 4 inches long & 2 feet square at the end, each containing about 300 ll of [nett] Cotton. It will have the [tan] marked on each box, the gross weight, & my name in full. The boards being only 3/4 the boxes can be inspected with the same facility of bags, by perforating them in two places, with a Tap borer & splitting out the span between. They can be encased * the [tare] checked with the same facility of Tobacco Hhds. Much of the sweep will depend on your obtaining a compensation for the Boxes. They contain 50 feet of 3/4 boards, with 24 Iron Clamps Nails &c all of which can be usefully employed in packing goods. From 75 to 100 Cts each will be a saving compensation, but not an equivalent for the expense of making them. More than that sum will be saved in each package of Cotton, for instead of the Cake of dirt with which the former packages were surrounded, the Cotton will come out of them as clean as a piece of fine Goods. I beg you will prepare the Manufacturers for the change & the advantages which so much concern them, something may be said in a national view, but these Manufacturers will not much regard the interest of a different branch. 

I have told you the two preceding Crops have been short, & that they present is abundant. In witnessing the las part, to the extent I contemplate, besides the former, it will prove to you another, viz, *ever increase of Cultivation!* For my self I am affraid the demand in Europe will not keep pace with us, but I suppose our means will soon become stationary. My own Crop, the present year, will exceed 5000,000 lbs of Clean Cotton & I suppose to have it ready for market by the last of Jany. I mean the last of it I shall make the first shipment in September, or early in Octo to the amoung to 60,000 lbs and afterwards be governed by Circumstances. The probability however is, I shall ship to you the amount of half my crop at least.

I am very respectfully

yrs W Hampton