---
Matthew Maury to James Maury, 1 August 1806. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Images 219-
---

Aug 1. 1806

My dear Brother

Your Letter of Aug 25th by Mr Pen, inclosing my unfortunate son Samuels Act, came safe to Hand - I lament & regret extremely, that he should have made so improper a Return for your kind (I might indeed say fatherly) attentions to him.

The Draught you made on Mr Salt in Favor of B has been paid & apply'd as you directed. It came very seasonably, for the Family was in want of every Thing without the means of procuring any Thing. Should you at any time henceforth think proper to authorise me to execute a similar commission, I will thank you to be very express in directing the Money to be applyed to the Use of the Family - this you did in the last Instance, but in the Application of the Debt I owed you, you were not so explicit, but B thought, or pretended to think, he had a right to demand the Cash of me. In this however I refused to gratify him, thinking myself justifiable from your Letter in so doing, & also being all but confident if he got hold of the Money, that the Family would not be benefited by it. - The consequence of which was, that I received more insult & abuse from him, than I ever received from any body or every body in my whole life. I would recommend my son in law Wm Michie, as a proper Agent on similar occasions. He is a near Neighbour & knows the wants of the Family - however should you prefer me, I will do as I have done, tho' I may probably be again treated as I have been. 

I congratulate you on the Recovery of your good Health, & you & my unknown Sister on the Addition to your Family - May you both live to see them a Credit & comfort to you. 

In my last Letter to you, about a year ago, I think I gave you a very full Act of the Situation of my Family, since which no material change has taken Place, except as to Tom - I believe I mentioned to you, that he was tired of the Law - He has since (thro the Means of the President) got an Appointment under Government - Receive of Monies for Lands sold by the United States, at Fort St Stephens, high up on the Mobille River, in a Tract of Country formerly belonging to the Sate of Georgia, but lately ceded to the United States. The Sallary is 500 Dolrs Certain & a Commission 2 1/1 pr cent on all monies received. This Perquisite will for the first year or two be inconsiderable, as the Purchasers under Government have had great Indulgences as to the Time of Payment, but the Secretary of ~~State~~ the Treasury tells him, that in the Course of a few Years it will probably be worth 4 or 5000 Dollars a year. Should it be so, it will be a handsome Appointment of itself, exclusive of the Advantages which may be made by a prudent Man in a new Country, like that, which,, in Fertility of soil advantages of situation &c is thought by many to be inferior to no part of the United States. He left us in June to repair to his post.

Our brother Abram & Fontaine neither of whom had been here for near three years, accidentally met here in May - Ben joined us, so that there ~~was~~ a meeting of four of the Fraternity - an Event that may probably never happen again. Abram is very Hearty, tho' much broke. Fontaine looks as well as I ever saw him - He tells me he is doing well, & like to sustain no considerable Inconvenience from the Check he met with in his Business last year.

Our friend Col Francis Walker left us in march last. He fell a victim to excessive drinking, to which he had totally abandoned himself for several years - Had it not been for this unhappy trait in his Character he would have been a great loss to his Family, Friends & society at large, for he was a man of excellent Talents & great Observations; indeed I think I have known very few possessed of a greater Share of that kind of Knowledge which renders a man useful & agreeable in life than he was - You would be astonished & shocked to see the Hight to which this abominable Practice is carried in this country at the Present Day. It really appears, that one third of the Men who die among us between the ages of 30 & 45 are Martyrs to it, for it is much more prevalent amongst the young than the old men.

The last year has been in several Respects, the most extraordinary known by the Oldest men in this Country - first for the Drought which has been such that I believe i may affirm as a Matter of Fact, that since the 18 of July twelvemonth there never has fallen rain enough in this Quarter more than twice to raise the streams to common winter current. The failure of the Springs in Consequence, is of late really distressing, many plantations not having a drop of water on them even for the Stock - my spring, which I have known upwards of 50 years & never knew the least failure, has several times within this few Days stopt running when there is any larger Draught than usual made from it. The Mildness of the Winter has been as remarkable as the Drought. From about the Middle of Jan till the last of ~~March~~ Feb the earth was never frozen & scarcely a white frost March & April were as remarkable for severity, Apr particularly in which there was scarcely a Day without Frost.

Notwithstanding this apparent unfavorableness of the Season the Crop of wheat is very great - I believe at least equal both in Quantity & Quality to any ever made in the state. The crop of Tob I suppose must be short from the scarcity of plants & seasons both - when I say short, I mean for the Quantity of Land prepared for that Crop; for in the upper Parts of this State there was more prepared than I believe had ever been known, tho there is a great deal of ground prepared which was never planted, & a great deal of what was planted is missing, yet the crop may not be very short.

I intended shipping my last years Crop to you but was deterred partly by the Quality which like most made in this Quarter, last year was indifferent, & partly by the Commotions in the European World in general & the unsettled State of affairs in the Commercial Department between the US & England. However, we are told on this side the water that there is a Prospect of an amicable Adjustment taking place between the two Countries with Respect to this Business. Heaven grant there may be a speedy Adjustment, no only of this, but all those other Differences, which have been the source of so much Carnage & every other Species of Cruelty & distress for many years past, particularly in the European World - the bare Recital of which must be shocking & distressing to every Person of common Humanity.

Your Friends & Acquaintance in this Quarter are generally well - Col Morris & the Family are something distressed with Respect to James - they have never heard from or of him since he left England for France. The Col is tolerably well, but has never, I think, fully recovered his spirits since the loss of his lady & two sons.

As to my own Health it has been better in general for about 15 months than for seven years, till since three of four weeks past when I had a severe attack of my old complaint in the bowels, perhaps the severest I ever had. However I am on the mending hand again, which some days ago I did not expect. Make a tender of respect & love to my sister, nephews & niece

Adieu

my Dear brother

Matthew Maury

PS I heard from your old Friend S Dalton a few days ago, he was live & hearty still

[envelope leaf]

James Maury Esqr

To the care of Mr Anderson Richmond

Liverpool

Received the 27 October 1806

Virginia 1 Augst 1806  
Revd M Maury  
Recd 27 Oct 1806