---
Margaret Maury to Matt Maury, 26 April 1814. James Maury Papers, University of Virginia. ViU3888 Box 4
---

Liverpool 26th April 1814

My dr Matt

I think I have scarcely anything to write, however as the Ewarts are going you will expect me to notice you - With some difficulty I have obtained a Seal for you, tho' not quite to my mind. Mr Hones took my orders yesterday for one for each of you, except Rutson, & so the impression is made by a die they only strike of Christen'd, & not [Sir] names. This is Ruston's birth-day, I intended to have congratulated hum by letter, but I have been kept at the Penitentiary so long I shall not be able. 

Mr Ewart says there will be a charge made in the Bill for Servants "however as the young Gentm may now & then make them some small present I recommend Mrs Maury applygin to my Son William who will give her every information on the subject."

Willm Ewart calld when I was at the Penitentiary, the weather is so bad, & rainy, that I cannot walk to Massly-hill, or I wou'd make the above enquiry - you must as W Ewart and act accordingly - The day after you left us, a letter cam from Mr Heath (your Tutor) to your Father. The account he gave of you was very gratifying indeed! I wrote a copy of the ltr to you Father on Sunday - and I also requested Mr Bigland to remit the money on Saturday, which he did - your Father will return I expect by the end of this week, but not with Mr Lace who I understand goes to Bath. Mr Latham yr Fathers Partner is at Cheltenham, his medical man, has ordered him to stay a fortnight which time will expire next Sunday.  
When I went about your seal I met Mr Wm Corrie he told me Valentine Byrom went to London the very same day you left here, in order to join Mr Leigh of Oak-hill who had promised to take Val down to Eton & introduce him to Mr Carter his intended Tutor - I shall send this by John in the Eveng to Mossly-hill he look'd rather grave upon my giving the order, for I fancy when James returned to dinner, he imagined the business of the day was concluded.  I almost long to know how you accomplished your journey, whether any difficulties occur'd, what sort of company in the Coach, and how you managed about your Trunk being convey'd from Slough to Eton. I hope you arrived without rain & then your trunk &c wou'd be dry and your clothes comfortable.

When I got to Mr. Gwathmeys the dinner was nearly over, at least the first course - Virginia has had something of the croup which has occasioned them to defer the Buxton jaunt - I miss'd the Lecture on Friday, & again last night, the first I was at the Penitentiary, the later at our neighbours Mrs Dixson where I sup'd and did not return til 12 o'clock the visit was to meet her Brother Mr Moore from Ireland, he is lately married & brought his Wife to England. 

James & William were pleased last night with some experiments upon a Frog & some other Animal (both dead tho) I think yr Brothers were electrified - Mr Daltons Son is going to read a course of Lectures but really I have forgot the subject. 

I expect there is a letter from you, to me, on the road, today I sent to enquire for one. Tell me about the journey the conveyance from Slough &c Trunk & and all about it for everything which concerns my dearest Matt must be interesting to his affect Mother

Margaret Maury

1/2 past 5 oClock Tuesday Eveng  Your father is this moment come in & looks most cleverly indeed! quite rosy - Love &c in abundance to our dear Matt

[Envelope Leaf]
 
 Master Matthew Maury  
 The Revd Wm Heath's  
 Eton
 
 Favor'd by Mr W Ewart
 
 Received April 29th Friday dated Lpool April 26th Tuesday answered Thursday 5th Mary 1814. No 2