---
title: M. Strachan to James Maury, 1 February 1796. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. (Images 3888B2_892-895
---

Brodie Febry 1st 96

My every beloved Br may be assured he afforded his Srs much gratification by his late letters; as every mark of tenderness & affection is grateful from one os much love'd & valued we are much pleas'd to hear of your good health and spirits by Capt. Daingerfield, & sincerely wish for a continuance of them, & every other essential to your happiness. be good enough to accept many thanks for your kind remembrance in the potatoes, & package which I expect to receive in a few days as our 13. 7 informs me they are come safe to hand. the distribution shall be as directed. the contents of your letter by the two Sisters shall be particularly attended to. & on my part will do all in my power to make your bounty useful, none of your nieces wants taking in hand more than your former favorite Miss Braha as you call her. I believe she possesses every requisite to make her a clever & useful woman, but she has been so long indulg'd & neglected that it may now be rather a difficult task but still I think much may be expected from her good sense, her Father I dare say has done all in his power for her, but you know he is the only person that has any influence over her. I wrote you a long letter in November giving you a particular account of all our connexions which you'll receive with this, therefore I will not be so unreasonable as to send you two long ones at once. my good man begs to be nam'd with much affection to you & thanks you for the melon seed which he will make tryal of, as he will of any of those new fangled things you speak of for his Nursery, & on the other hand will be pleas'd to send you any thing in that way from this country that you may have a fancy for, he finds the nursery very profitable, but with better health he would be much more advantageous our friends at the mountains were all well not long since. Sr Lewis is just recovering from a daingerous Illness which has contin'd for many weeks, but I thank God [text loss] ~~recovering~~ meding very fast & I hope in time to see her heartier than she has been for some time. Mr Lewis will write you if she does not, therefore shall refer you to him for particulars. please to name us to your Nephew James who I hope is well & also that he will do well. I intended writing him but am so much engaged at this time that I cannot, but hope to hear from him as well as yourself whenever it is convenient & believe me my Dearest your affectionate Sr

M. Strachan

Mr. James Maury  
Liverpool

50 Brodie 1 Feby 1796 Mrs M Strachan

Recd 29 Apl 96





[Mary Maury Strachan b. 1750 d. 1822, younger sister of JM]