---
Matthew Maury to James Maury, August 6, 1802. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Box 3, images 97-100. 
---

Aug. 6 1802

My dear Brother

yr Letter of the 4th Feb came to hand some Time in May. It is always pleasing to me to hear from you; but in the present Instance was particularly so, as it had been so long since I had had that Pleasure, owing to a suspension of our Correspondence, which on my Part I can make no other Apology for than ~~the~~ an  uninterrupted series of bad health for about three years past. 

I thank you for your kind & affectionate Attention expressed in your Letter for my Recovery of a better State of Health. I had before the Receipt of ~~your Letter~~ it made us of most, if not all, of the medicine prescribed by Doctor Brandreth, tho not prepared in the same Manner. Since which I have made use of the Preparations prescribed by him, but without experience any permanent Benefit, which has indeed been the [case] of every thing I have ever taken. This with some other Circumstances induces me to suspect that those of the Faculty I have consulted - Namely Bagnham, Minor, Worth & Meriwether, are mistaken as to the seat & nature of my complaint.  As you desire, I inclose you a Statement of my case, as good an one as I can, tho' it is so complicated & assumes such a variety of Forms, that am not equal to the task of giving you an accurate one. Doctor Everett, who performed the operation for the Fistula, & whose Advice I have generally followed since, has also added his Observations, on it, which I send you.

This I expect will be handed you by Jimmy Morris, who goes out in a vessel of yrs & takes Liverpool in his Way to Edinburgh. You will find him a sensible pleasant Lad. As I am more indisposed than usual, & in bad order for writing, I refer you to him for the News of this Quarter in general. I believe I have never written to you since the Receipt of yr Letter empowering me to draw on you for £50 Sterling, to be applyed to the purchasing a Bit of Land for our Brother Benjamin. It was applyed as you directed, & with the Addition of a small Contribution from some of his friends bought a tract of land of upwards of 100 acres, which, tho the quarter part of it is poor, is thought to be a good Bargain - He himself is well pleased with it & I believe it suits him nearly, if not quite as well, as better would do.

Tom, after whom you enquire, has been with me 4 or 5 months. He intends to apply for a License to plead the Law in September after obtaining which he proposes steering to the Western Country. Fontaine is also with me at present & Assists me in my school - but he will shortly leave me & go to a school where he will be instructed in Mathematicks, Geography, &c in order to prepare him for diverse greater Advantages, than he would otherwise do, from a Course of Lectures at Wm & Mary, where I propose his spending one Year - After which he at present proposes engaging in the Business of Schoolkeeping, unless something more eligible should in the mean time present itself. This is a Plan which fully meets my Approbation, for I think this at present much preferable either to Physick or the Law.

Rueben is also with me - his Talents are but middling; but unless I am mistaken or partial, he is a Lad of sterling Mind & of the most amiable temper & disposition - He at present wishes to be bound to a Carpenter, in which I shall gratify him shortly - John I have at school with me - he is a lad of uncommon [sprightliness] & Veracity in every thing but learning - in which he is but dull.

I most sincerely congratulate you on the Incraese of your Family. Sint multi & felices.

I think in my last letter I informed you I had lodged a Hhd of tob with our Brother Fontaine with instructions to ship it to you- [Toom] some Mistake it was shipped with a Parcel of Tob from Fredburf to Hamburgh, where it sold for a great Price, but the Business was never fixed & ascertained till within this twelvemonth - so that the Object proposed in shipping has not been answered, which was to pay some Money I ~~[word]~~ I owed you - Let me know by yr next what it is & it shall be pd by a Shipment of Tob or in some other Way. 

This state feels very sensibly the effects of the great fall in the Price of Wheat & Tob. And the Presumption is, that they may be considerably lower, as the present drop of the former is immense & the Prospect for the later very real.

I send you the Registers of our Ages - from this you will see that I am near the close of my 58th year - an Age to which but a small proportion of my [Werals] have arrived, as I find on looking round me. Our two Classfellows indeed, who are both something older, are here & both remarkably stout & hearty for their Time of Life - The President in particular, I think, wears as well as any Man I ever knew  - Who would have thought 40 years ago that T. Jefferson would ever have been supreme Magistrate of the united States of N. America, J Madison Bishop of Virginia. The latter is still thin & meagre but healthy & I expect to see him shortly; for he generally spends a Day or two with me either on his way to, or return from the Upper Country, to which he goes every fall. 

This is probably the last time you will hear from me, for unless a more favorable change in my Health should take place, than I have any Reason to flatter myself with, I am pretty well assured my stay here cannot be long, & probably may be very short. However let me hear from you [text loss] you find it convenient. Name me affection[text loss] my sister & the Children, particularly my namesake.

I am

yr affectionate Brother

Matthew Maury

[address leaf]

Mr. James Maury

Liverpool

Favord by Mr. Morris

Albermarle 6 Augt 1802  
Revs M Maury

received the 7 Octr 1802 and the 19 Novr