---
James Maury to Overton Anders, 19 November 1796. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. (Imgs 3888B2_869-874)
---

Liverpool 19 Novr 1796

Mr Overton Anderson

Dear Sir

You proceed hence to Madeira where the present Bills Lading are to be cancelled & you are to take fresh ones in six setts (four of which you are to inclose to me by separate opportunities) of the Cargo deliverable at the Isle of France. There you will dispose of it on the best Terms you can conducting the produce in the best Coffee & Cotton or such other Merchandise as may promise to answer in Europe; but giving preference to Coffee, unless you shall have reason to judge otherwise from a View of prices then & there. to assist you in which you have prices current your bills Lading & Invoice of the returned Cargo myst be filled up expressing for acct of James Maury Consul to the Untied States of America resident at Liverpool & Citizen of said States. On Return you are to call at Falmouth for orders to a [market] where, after delivery to my order, you agency will cease. I allow you 5 pr cent commission on the Sales of the outward Cargo & same on the purchase of the Returns. for Cabin Stores the Voyage twenty five Guineas. Leave no property behind. finish all your accounts & use all practicable dispatch.

In case the outward Cargo be not [sufficient] to purchase enough for loading the ship back & you could compleat such loading by purchase thro your drafts on me payable at ninety to one hundred & twenty days sight in Philadelphia [Hermto] or London at fair Exchange, you may draw as far as three thousand pounds [ltr] Coffee not exceeding eight pence nor Cotton sixteen pence Sterlg the pound [true or Bond] I should tho prefer your filling of such deficiency on freight if to be had really and bona fide on Neutral Account otherwise not

Write to me without Fail by all opportunities during your absences. From Madeira Mr Pintard will inform you of the proper Channels of Conveyance afterwards omit no opportunity for Europe or America - my Correspondents are Samuel Williams Amr Consul Hamberg Dotreé at Nantes, Jacob Dohrman AC at Lisbon, Philadelphia Ralph Eddowes. Letters under cover to these friends with regard to forward.

Herewith you have Blank Bills Lading An American Callendar, Acts of Congress contain Treaties with Britain & Algiers also you have the French & Dutch Treaties with us.

There is Cask of potatoes with some Newspapers for Mr. Pintard & the same for Mr McCartney. In case of any Disaster to ship use all possible care to have your [protests] in order.

I wish by no Means that you reside any Gentlemen passengers unless really needful. Callahan has the use of four tons if he wants it & the Merte one Tone. 

If you can procure any freight from Madiera to Isle of France really [illegible] proprety, accept it, provided you can [use] it without delay.

[illegible] attached copy of your Invoice If you have occasion for six or seven hundred dollars to take with you for my account purchase them at Madeira & draw also for any disbusement the stay there may occasion. 

Mr. Pintard is to fist on Board or Hhd for me.

I am your friend

James Maury


I promise to conform to the foregoing instructions. O Anderson.

Liverpool 19th Novr 1796

PS
On your Return, clear out the ship for Hamburg, Inclose Bills of Lading of the Cargo to JM for Different opportunities, In case you Draw for any money forward Bills of Lading of the Cargo with every sett of Exchange. 

On your arrival off Falmouth hoist the American Colors on your Foretop Galant mast head.

James Maury

Additions for instructions for OA