---
John Glassell to James Maury, 27 February 1805. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. ViU3888.BX.173-175
---

Long [Niddry] 27th Feby 1805

My Dear Sir

I think it is about twenty eight years since I last had the pleasure of seeing you. 

In my [Sequestered] Situation at this place for 25 yr past, I have had little intercourse with our Former Mutual friends, the greatest Number of Whom are gone to that Country from Which no traveller returns.

When ever I have met a transient opportunity, I have not fail'd to make every inquiry about you - and I have been Much gratify'd with the Accounts of your prosperity; particularly, that you have had the Attendant good fortune, to be Marry'd to a Most pleasant Cheerfull Acquaintance of Mrs G & Mine, & that you have a Family.

I can have no doubt of your Material happyness, and I most Cordially pray, that it may long Continue.

Altho I have had Occassionally a great deal of delicate health, and am now Much trouble'd with an Astmah for which At my time of Life, there is no radical Cure to be expected. It renders Walking & Writing very oppressive. But I ahve reason to be gratefull to the Kind providenc eof God, that I can still ride 8 or 10 miles in a Forenoon. We have no Family, save one Charming little Girl, [herself] 8 or 9 years old, who affords us Much Comfort when she Occassionally returns from the Boarding School which she attends with a Governess. 

The object of this letter is to introduce to your Natural Urbanity & Kindness a Very Worthy young Gentleman Dr William Pursill who has been persuaded to Settle at your place to follow his profession as a Physician, and I have no doubt, but that he will eventually succeed & be a blessing to the place, when his Merits Come to be Known & His Worthy intelligent Uncle has indulg'd his fine Natural genius & [Stedraces haleis] with as Compleat a professional education, as any Man in the Island ever enjoyed - He has with all dilligence Attended the Universitys of Edinburgh, Glasgow & Gollingen, and has pass'd a Considerable time in Most of their Hospitals, as well as the Hospitals & Lectures of Londong & Hamburg and his Gratuitous, Charitable practize in this Country, has been Attended with much Success. The only thing that I can discover that will be against him; is an over-stock of Modesty, which I hope time will remove.

In short, I hope you will find him a Virtuous intelligent Frend, without any of the Vices of the Age.

I do not mean to oppose any person to my old Acquaintance Dr Corrie - he will always have busyness - I am sorry to hear he has bad health. Perhaps he cou'd not do better than take Dr Pursell as his associate - as it is with some difficulty I write this, and cannot at present write our other friends, Your benevolent heart will pardon my requesting the favour of you, to present my ardent good wishes to the Annex'd list of our friends & in my Name request their Countenance & Friendshwip, which I shall Consider as a Singular favour and in due time I hope they will experience our Young friends gratitude.

If your [hevory] will permit you I shall be highly gratify'd bu a letter from you now & then by post (following up a [stort] by detachments at your leisure) with an account of our old friends & acquaintances that remain. I have seen no person for many years from Virginia, except Mr W Colghoun from Falmouth Staid a Week. Pray is honest Capts Quincy & Pory &c alive? Mrs Glassell Joins me in Kind Wishes to her Cheerfull friend (to whom she felt much attach'd) Mrs Maury and shou'd any Cause ever move you to Visit this part of the Island, you will make us happy if you will Consider our Mansion as your home as Long as you Can stay. Our Climate is perhaps the best in the Island, upon the Sea Side 11 miles east from Edinburgh, with as fertile fields as most in England. I wou'd visit Liverpool &c but I cannot for many reasons move so far from home. Believe me always wth much regards 

Your faithful friend * most obt ser

John Glassell

I hope our Friend Mr A [Hupant] has got over his misfortune.

[Envelope leaf]

James Maury Esqr  
Consul for the United States of America at  
Liverpool

Care of Dr Wm Pursell

Direct for me at LongNeddry by Prestonpans

received the 5 March and 12th do


*Transcriber's note: Longniddry is a village in the Lothians, in Scotland. For Glassell, see [note 3 on Lee to Madison, 3 April 1790](https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Madison/01-13-02-0099#JSMN-01-13-02-0099-fn-0003)*