---
James Lewis to James Maury, 29 September 1799. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Box 3, Images 72-76
---

My dear Friend

Inclosed you have a Copy of what has been done in yr matters & Mr F Maurys. It has not been admitted to record as yet, but will in due time. You should have heard from me before now had it not been requested by your Bro FM that I should wait until he had recd an answer to a ltr he had wrote to you on the subject however the original of which this is a true copy was a few weeks since put in my hands - you will also receive inclosed a copy of the Acct of Sales together with some charges in the a/c which I find has not reached you in consequence of a ltr or two of mine on the subject not coming to hand, and it was not in my power to inform you of those charges when I first reported to you the acct of sales. 

The charge for sundry expenses will no doubt appear to you high as it did to me, but when this business comes to be explain'd it may not be thought out of the way - in the first place there was an express sent to Leesburg to know whether Genl Mason had returned from Philadelphia and whether they were ready to divide the Est. Agreeable to the time appointed, next your Bro FM expenses being about ten days absent together with the expense of a Waggon & team on him for three weeks. It happening that the weather became so hard they coud not move. the allowance for cloathing was swell'd in consequence of yr request to me in yr ltr dated the 20th Septembr 1795 when you say "and when you sell them, present each with a Hat, Blanket, and suit of cloaths." this business my dear friend has given me not a little uneasiness. It is certain I might have made objections to the appropriations of the money but seeing your ltr to yr Bro Matt respecting the education of his son Tom, and also your ltr by yr sister Strachan respecting your niece under her care, and knowing how the money was applied, these circomstances (and at the same time not knowing he was your debtor on any other account) lead to believe that the appropriation of the money as has been stated to you, would be perfectly agreeable. As to his being appointed yr attorney through me for the particular purpose of representing you in the division of Mr A's Est I have given you (in a former ltr) my reason for so doing owing to the indisposition of my Family. The division took place and he Mr FM sold to Genl Mason &c negroes to the amount of one hundred & sixty pounds & had recd the money except fifty two pounds 17/4 a balance due on Genl Mason bond which bond is in the hands of a Mr Dykes of Alexa for payment, which I am in hopes has been recd, as Frequent promise has pass'd. If it should be the case Mr Johnson shall immediately receive it as also my own balance in some little time. As to the "Correctness" of the balance due you on the two last charges [pr yr a/c a 3 me]. It is not in my power to say any thing about. I observe that I ship'd in Apl 1791 eleven Hhd of Tobo weighing Eleven Thousand Two Hundred & Thirty Seven pounds, on board the Ann & Mary Danl Swetman Master, there was also one other Hhd at the bottom of the list containing 1088 Pounds but am not certain it ever went. For which Hhd I find I have a credit for Fifty four pounds 17// I acknowledge I did think at the time it was little enough but was always satisfied that as far as was in yr power I had Justice done me. the two pair of spectacles we recd and are Thankfull to you for yr attention to us in this as well as many other things. I intend this ltr to pr the hope & as it is late in the Evening shall say nothing to you about Family matters.

Tomorrow our district court commences where I shall attend & perhaps shall find a ready conveancy for [text loss] . Your sister S has been poorly all the summer and [text loss] some of watering palces, at present think her mending. she wants to say something to you & her sister, but poor girl it is not in her power her eyes are so weak. so often talks of you all, and I do sincerely believe that it is the wish of her heart to see you her sister & nephews. To whom she Joins me in wishing every happy.

Yrs affy

Jas Lewis

29 Septmr 1799

Since writing the above find that Genl Masons bond of £52.17.4 is in the hands of Mr FM and as it appears that a suit must be commenced on it, have thought proper to make him Mr FM debtor for the whole amt of sales. 

[envelope leaf]

Mr James Maury

Mercht

Liverpool

James Lewis Virginia 29 Sept 1799

Answered Oct 18000