---
title: Stephens Thomson Mason to James Maury, December 10, 1795. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888, Box 2, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va.
---

Philadelphia Decr 10th 1795

Dear Sir

Since my arrival here I am favored with yours of the 13th of September and am obliged to you as well for the public communications as for friend dispositions of a private nature it contains we had received later advices from Europe than your Newspapers contained tho' I had not heard any thing so certain (I can hardly say satisfactory) on the Subject of your Markets as that mentioned in your Letter.

The Treaty with Britain (a copy of which I sent to the press about the time I wrote to you from this place) has been very illy received by the People of America. Remonstrances from every  part of the Union were sent in to the President entreating him not to ratify the Treaty these remonstrances are said to have had such weight as to have determined the President at one time not to ratify why he afterwards altered that [declaration] and affixed his signature we are told will be explained by Mr Randolph ~~who~~ in a Pamphlet he has now in the [Press] in defense of his own conduct and explanatory of his reasons for resigning the office of Secy of State, accusations on at least insinuations have been made agt Mr Randolph of improperly receiving money from Mr. Fauchet the late Minister of France. It is said that the publications will bring to light some curious and important State Secrets.

The public mind is much engrossed by an accusation through the medium of the press agt the President Mr. Hamilton & Mr Walcott former Controller now Secretary of the Treasury for paying to ye President on acct of his Salary more money that the law authorised. 

Memorials are coming in to the House of Representatives agt the Treaty on the grounds of its containing stipulations which the constitution of the U States does not authorise the President & Senate to make this will produce a very warm discussion, and I am inclined to think that Congress will not be got to make the provisions necesary to carry the Treaty in effect.

I have corresponded with Mr. Lewis respecting the divison of the Negroes and expect to meet him in Loudon on that  business on the 1st of Jany I wrote you from Alexandria in October, hoping to hear from you frequently. I am Dear Sir with real regard yours

Sth Thos Mason

PS I inclose you the Presdts Speech

[on address leaf] answered