---
title: Maria Mason to Miss Rutson, October 20, 1795. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888, Box 2, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va.
---

Raspberry Plain Octr 20. 1795

It is with sincere regret my Dear and ever Valued Miss Rutson! that it has not been in my power to offer you [re] this late period my greatful acknowledgements for the tender concern and alleviating sympathy expressed in your affectionate lt on a late melancholy occation! the Contents of which fills me with more gratitude & love than Language can convey! nor wou'd my grateful heart so long have refused its acknowledgements! had no Ive been plunged in three weeks after the receipt of yours, into the deepest affliction! this you'll say was hard indeed! but heavens will be done! _ indeed my friend I have experienced such a succession of Melancholy events within the last twelve month, that i have been allmost unfit for any pursuit. [And] Docr Young very justly observes "Rare are solitary woes [illegible]  My Dr Mr Mason in the Month  of Decr last while on the Assembly was so unfortunate as to take cold, & violent fever succeeded, cough, & hoarsness, for five months, was he racked with the most dreaful cough that ever a human breast was agitated by, it defy'd all Medical skill! during that time, a kind of lethargy seized him, these & many other Complains reduced hum so low, his voice cou'd scarcly be heard, nor was he able for many weeks during the five months, to walk alone, it is impossible my Dr friend to sell you what I suffer'd during this afflicting time! your kind and sympathizing heart alone can answer for me! At length it pleased the Almighty to restore him to health and me to happiness! but alas how unstable is all human bliss! five of our Dr little ones were in a few weeks after taken ill, and continued low for many months, scarcly a week interval of health - it please'd the Almighty once more to hear my prayrs & restore them to us! - scarcly had I resum'd my wonted cheerfulness and rais'd my grateful heart to heaven in praise, for all its mercies! when oh! the Idol of my heart was snatched from me! and oh! can I live to tell it~ a sweet little girl about 14 months old, the lovliest infant that ever a fond mother was bless'd with - I had taken the liberty of calling her after my dear Miss Rutson! be she is gone! and never shall I know sweet content again! oh god enable me to support this stroke, and teach oh teach me resignation to thy will!

Thus my Dear have I given you a miserable detail of the last twelve month of my life, which has had so disagreeable effect on my health & appearance, that I am scarcly known, during this melancholy time, heaven knows how ardently I long to write to you, to tell you how much I loved & ador'd you for all your goodness, but never thought my mind sufficiently at care, still looking forward to some more happy moment! sweet hope! thou only friend of the wretched! what shou'd we be, bereft of the[e]

I lament much the lose of your sweet sympathizing lts as I flatter myself you wou'd have done me the honor of answering my sad lines, cou'd I have written to you, may I my Dear Creature hope to be bless'd with a continuance of your goodness, write me write me often, my Dr Friend, the friend of my Dearly beloved and ever Lamented Sister! Your sweet sympathy will prove a balm to my wounded heart! such a series of affliction! of god support me under into teach me fortitude, resignation to thy decrees! an annual visitation oh Miss Ruston forgive my weakness this time twelvemonth, I lost the Dearest, the best, the most beloved to sisters! but why need I tell you what she was- who are so well acquainted with the virtues the of Dear departed saint, her Dear remembrance is to deeply fix'd in my heart I can never take it from me, every thing I see every thing I hear recals her belov'd Idea, but let this console me, she is gone to the reward of a Virtuous well spent life, to the bosom of her Savior, her redeemer, oh bless'd scenes of permanent delight! oh my Dearly beloved and ever lamented sister - never shall I cease to deplore your loss never no never untill that bless'd period arrives when we meet to part no more! Oh my Dear Miss Rutson, when I look back on the early period of our lives, our pastimes, our pleasures, our love! our sweet evening rambles, our reading working singing playing (forgive this folly) with what regret with what anguish! I look back on that happy! happy! era! oh that I cou'd havve seen her only have set by her bedside day one! that I cou'd have held her dear hand, or administred some one comfort to her, even these melancholy pleasures were deny'd me! I cou'd not make one kind enquiry! nor take one look at the Dear departed Saint!

but since tis so - let me bow in humble resignation to him that made us and know what is best for us! in him I trust - & hope by his Mercy to be reunited in the Mansions of bless, to those I loved on Earth. the last accounts we had from the Dr Creature, all was well & flatter'd us with the fond Idea of seeing her soon, but alas our meeting is reserv'd for a purer Climate, oh my Dr Miss Rutson, why did she not hasten to us before too late? why did she not wish to try her native air? not one hint had I of her decline (Dear Creature, what must have been her sufferings!) the shock was too, too! severe! no preparation! no hint! but she thought it best to keep it from us, from motives of tenderness I suppose. Oh my belov'd Br thou best of Men, what has my gentle Heart suffer'd such affection! such happiness! oh death thouh cruel tyrant! I fear I tire you my Dr with my incoherence - & must hasten to tell my Dr Miss Ruston we shall never cease to remember her with the warmest affection & gratitude! never cease our praise to heaven for guiding to my Dear Sister he Guardian Angel in the person of Miss Rutson!

my sister spoke in raptures of her Dear Rutsons! & often told ~~to~~ me she wou'd soon introduce to me her favorite Ann your sister too she delighted in, but alas all these delightful Ideas, I must now resign! & look forward to that blissful period when we shall all meet in the Celestial Regions! never to part again! I fear I grow tiresome, I hope in my next to be more calm, be so good as to accept of our warmest wishes for your felcity & every temporal enjoyment, be so good to offer my sincere regard to your Sister whom I shall be happy to hear from. Mama, my sister betsey, & Mr Mason unite with me in the tenderest wishes for our Dear Miss Rutsons whom we shall ever remember with sentiments of the [Ervelies] affection & Gratitude! believe to be my Dear Miss your sincere

affection friend Maria Mason

I take the livery of offering my best regards to Mrs Walke, my little Maria & Catherine desire to be remembered to you. MM

[address leaf]
Miss Rutson.