---
title: James B. Maury to James Maury, 12 June 1796.  February 27, 1796. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. (Imgs 3888B2 884-885)
---

Liverpool 12 jUne 1796

Mr. James Maury

My dear Uncle

I have this morning received a letter from Johnson, informing you that he has ordered his ship the Holland here direct for Gurnsey to take freight for George Town and Alexandria. Mr Imlay also writes, saying "provide there is still a difficulty in settling his claim on the Underwriters, that he has received an account of the Sales of the Alerts Cargo in Philadelphia which perhaps might if you had it, remove all difficulty on the subject." Tomorrow I will see Mr. Wilson & write Mr. I the result. 

Next comes a very long letter from Capper Perkins & Co with their account current, in closing their [dft] on you at 2 Months  Date for £91.5.2 for goods due. They wish to know whether you will offer yourself as Guarantee for the payment of what goods Mr. Anderson may want they say from £6 to §700 payable in 12 Months. I acknowledge receipt of their letter to day. I saw you will do the needful on your return, wch will be on tuesday I expect.

Mr. Anderson left me this Morng. I walked down with him to the Coach office, his Ancle very much swelled. There are two letters received for him this Morng he desired me to keep them till his return With love to my intended Aunt.

I am my dear Uncle

Your Affc Nephew

James B. Maury

[address leaf]
James Maury Esquire  
at Mr Wakefields  
Kendall  

Liverpool 12 June 1796 J.B. Maury