---
James Lewis to James Maury, 29 September 1799. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va.
---

My dear Friend

Inclosed you have a Copy of what has been done in yr matters & Mr F Maurys. It has not been admitted to record as yet, but will in due time. you should have heard from me before now had it not been requested by your [Bro] FM that I should wait unil he had recd an answer to a Ltr he had wrote you on the subject however the Original of which this is a true copy was a few week since put in my hands - you will also receive inclosed a copy of the Acct of sales together with some charges in the a/c which I find have not reach'd you in consequence of a ltr or two of mine on the subject not coming to hand, and it was not in my power to inform you of those charges when I first reported to you the acct of sales. 

The charge for sundry expences will no doubt appear to you high as it did me but when this business come to be explain'd it may not be thought out of the way - in the first place there was an express sent to Leesburg to know whether Genl Mason had return'd from Philadelphia and whether they were ready to divide the Est agreeable to the time appointed. next your Bro FM's expenses being about ten days absent together with the expense of a waggon & team on hire for three weeks. It happens that the weather become so hard they could not move. The allowance for cloathing was swell'd in consequence of yr request to me in yr ltr dated the 20th Septm 1795 when you say "and when you sell them, present each with a hat, blanket, and suit of cloaths" This business my dear friend has given men not a little uneasiness. It is certain I might have made objections to the appropriations of the money, but seeing you lrt to yr Bro Matt respecting the education of his son Tom, and also your ltr to yr sister Strachan "respecting your niece under the care and knowing how the money was applied, those circumstances (and at the some time not knowing he was your debtor on any other account) lead to believe that the appropriation of the money as has been stated to you, would be perfect agreeable. As to his being appointed yr attornet through me for the particular purpose of representing you in the division of Mr. A's Este I have given you (in a former ltr) my reason for so doing. Owing to the indisposition of my Family. The division took place and he Mr FM sold to Genl Mason &c Negroes to the amount of One Hundred & Sixty [pounds] and has recd the money except fifty two pounds 17/4 a balance due on Genl Mason bond which bond is in the hands of a Mr Dykes of Alexa for Payment, which I am in hopes has been recd as Frequent [Promise] has pass'd. If it should be the case Mr. Johnson shall immediately receive it, as also my own balance in some little time. As to the "Correctness" of the balance due you on the two last charges in yr a/c [a 3rd m] It is not in my power to say any thing about. I observe that I ship'd in Aprl 1791 eleven Hhds of Tobo weighing Eleven Thousand Two Hundred & Thirty Seven Pounds, on baord the Ann & Mary Danl Swetman Master, there was also one other Hhd at the bottom of the list containing 1088 pounds but am not certain it ever went. For which Hhd I find I have a credit for Fifty four pounds 17/= I acknowledge I did think at the time it was little enough, but was always satisfied that as far as it was in yr Power I had Justice done one. The two pair of spectacles we recd and are Thankfull to you for yr attention to us in this as with as many other things. I intend this lrt pr the hope & as it is late in the Evening shall say nothing to you about Family matters.

To morrow our district court commences where I shall attend & perhaps shall find a ready conveyance for [*text loss*] your sister S has been poorly all the summer and [*text loss*] soon of Watering Places, at present think her mending. she wants to say something to you & her sister but poor girl it is not in her power her eyes are so weak. she often talks of you all and I do sincerely believe that it is the wish of her heart to see you her sister & nephews To whom Joins me in wishing ever happy

yrs affy

Jas Lewis

29 Setpemr 1799

Since writing the above find that Genl Masons bond of £52.17.4 is in the hands of Mr FM and as it appears that a suit must be commenced on it, have thought proper to make him Mr FM debtor for the whole amt of sales 

[envelop leaf]

Mr James Maury  
Mecht  
Liverpool

Jas Lewis Virginia 29 Sept 1799 

answered Oct 1800