---
Fontaine Maury to James Maury, 14 November 1803. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. ViU3888.BX.151-154
---

Duplicate

New York Nov 14. 1803

James Maury Esqr

My Dear Brother

Confirming the Contents of my Letter of the 4th Instant a Copy of which goes herewith I have since received non of your favors. It is with Pleasure I inform you that notwithstanding the dreadful Calamity with which we have been so recently Visited, that Business seems almost already to have resumed its usual appearance, which is wonderfull after an almost entire suspension of it for near three months. 

During my absence I had much pleasure in passing a Considerable Portion of my time with  our Brother Matthew, where I found my Daughter Eliza & son Richard on a visit with their Aunt Lewis - In his appearance I found less change than I expected after an absence of near two years - in his Spirits very little if any alteration, and without some unfavorable change in his Complaint, he is likely to live to see all his Children matured, but it is mortifying to me to find neither of his sons who have turned out in the Professional Pursuits, are likely to make that respectable Figure which I should feel so much pleasure in seeing them do - my namesake is still at Willian & Mary, who in respect to talents is quite respectable, he is an extreme good Classical Scholar, and his general deportment so Correct as to promise to his worthy Parents much Comfort in his declining years - I believe his object is the Qualify himself as a Tutor, and if there should be a Colledge established at the Green Springs in Louisa, which Mr. Jefferson, Bishop Madison James Madison Col John Taylor William C Nichols Geo Divers Col. Morris, the proprietor and some other monied men have it much at heart to bring about, I think Fontaine will at once get a respectable station in it - Six of the above gentlemen, and three others in the neighborhood of the proposed establishment have engaged to give £500 [VCy] towards effecting this favorite object, and the Buildings already on the Spott being adequate to the accomodation of nearly 100 students, I hope it may soon be in operation. Our Brother Abraham I found going on in his Prudent and Industrious way, but in selling of his old Stock of Goods made a bad Debt of about 1000 Dollars, which will keep him behind hand for a Crop or two - neither of his Daughters, who are fine Girls have married, his sons are in the way to be brought up Farmers. In Benjamin there is, I am Concerned to say, no favorable change. Richard is quite easy in his situation and I hope in the way to better it. JS is making money by his Tree Business &c but as formerly appropriates it as improperly as as he can well do, and tis a matter of much regret and Mortification to see that Charming Woman so long toiling to so little purpose. Your Sister in Law Mrs Mason so far as relates to pecuniary Concerns is eligibly situated, having an Estate which cannot fail to afford every Comfort of Life, and with good management ought to do much more. With sincere good wishes for you & yours I remain truly

Your affc

Fontaine Maury

[envelope leaf]

answered