---
title: John Wilson to James Maury, 11 November 1796. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. (Image 3888B2_903-5)
---

Liverpool 11 Nov 1796

Dear Sir

I answer your esteemed favour of the 9th Inst. On enquiry I find that it is by no mean a clear point at Lloyd's Coffee House, whither a Vessel, an American, can be insured by the Owner (who is resident in England) England to France - A Mr Clagget, an American Gentleman who has had risques of this nature to cover, is of opinion such an Insurance cannot be *lawfully* made; he therefore has described his insured voyages *at and from London to Portugal with leave to call at a Port or Ports in the Bay is Biscay*. All the Ports in that Bay being now inimical, precludes even that subterfuge, for it was no more, and therefore in my judgement not perfectly safe.

The first thing to be considered is, can an American Ship be cleared out at the Custom House for France? If yea, the voyage is legal; if no, it is not. A legal voyage may undoubtedly be protected by the Policy, an illegal one cannot. Madeira to France must be legal, if the Cargo do not consist of contraband or prohibited Goods, Warlike Stores &c. I know of no law in this country which precludes the Insurance of Enemies Property even, in an innocent voyage with an innocent Cargo.

The next question is, can residence in England destroy the virtue or essence of American Citizenship? With respect to yourself I should conceive not; - your Consulship must protect you. How far you would be accredited in France, if they would make a good prize, may be another question for the underwriters to consider. 

On *founding* I found it would not be an easy Insurance to make even in Lloyd's Coffee House. Warrant us free from Capture & Seizure and we will underwrite, say these worthy Gentlemen.

I have to ask your pardon for having overlooked your last Question; the premium from New York to Bengal. I will inform myself of this against tomorrow.

With much respect I am Dear Sir

Your obed Hbl Servt

John Wilson

[envelope leaf]

James Maury Esqr  
Liverpool

London 11 Nov 1796  
J. Wilson