---
M Strachan to James Maury, 19 February 1805. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. ViU3888.BX.170-172
---

Brodie Febry 19th 180[4]

I had the pleasure of hearing not long since through our Br Fontaine that my Dr Br & family were well. I have not received a letter from you since last summer, which I answered & sent by way of New york last November, with some fruit & hams from our Sr Lewis & self, which we hope you have received in good order, & that the children were gratified. I thought this morn'g I would give you a short letter, tho I had nothing very entertaining to communicate, only that all our friends are pretty well, my good man excepted, who has been much distressed with his pains this cold winter, but I hope a change of weather will have a good effect. our Br Matt has enjoyed better health for some months past than usual. we have had the most severe winter ever known here. the earth has hardly been clear of snow since early in November, & the weather intensely cold, but you know your Br Strachan was always remarkable for providing a good wood-pile, therefore we were ~~were~~ indulged with comfortable fires, which were very essential in our large family. I hope your little flock are all we,, & progressing to your wishes. Sr Lewis & myself have made our adopted children write you & their Aunt. they are both very promising. tell my Nephew James we shall expect him to attend to us in that way soon. do my beloved Br & Sr write soon, for I always feel anxious to hear from you & yours. my good man begs to be affectionately named to you. the opportunity will not admit of my saying more than that you are tenderly loved by

your Sr

M Strachan

Sr Lewis begs to present her love & best wishes, she intended to have added a PS to Richards letter but was interrupted Br R is here & requests to be particularly named to you also. 

[envelope leaf]

Mr James Maury

Liverpool

Brodie 19th Feby 1805  
M Strachan  
Recd 4 May 1805  
ansd

