---
Abram Maury to James Maury, 15 November 1802. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Box 3, images 107-109.
---
Madison [Co] Va 15 Novr 1802

My Dear Brother

My last covered yr ac since which I have not recd a line from you it being about 2 years ago wch makes me think you did not receive it I therefor send yr acct again wch I will thank you to close as you think fit. The payments I made for the tuiition of my children I expected wd suit you as well as if the money had been sent you, as I never have been able to raise a large sum at a time & when I have small ones I can always find some person ready to receive them as their due.

Thro' yr bounty Nancy & Betsey have got tolerable good education - James would have had one but considering that I was not able to give him a learned profession it was putting you to a useless expence in his education. I have therefore concluded to bind him to a saddler. Abram will undertake the farmers or carpenters business, he reads writes & understands Arithmatic tolerably well & is very strong & robust. Butler has a very good fenius for learning & is studious but I have not determined what to do with him yet. Willy goes to our Sister Strachan. Catherine & Jean Suffrein both go to a neighboring school, the latter is a sprightly & promising boy.

I have declined the merchantile line & turned farmer & my neighbors call me a tolerable good one but I find that I am obliged to labor hard to support my family, but that I do with great chearfulness, as I have a good soil to work upon in Sight of yr old Friend Mr H Fry - my crop of wheat this year amos to upwards of 400 Bushels, but the price is very low here. Our Sister Matilda is in this neighborhood & wishes much that she could take a trip to see you - all our friends that I have heard from lately are well.

I expect this will be handed you by Mr. John Wharton the son of one of that name in Culpr County whom I take the liberty of introducing to you as a young man of very amiable disposition.

I sincerely Congratulate you & my sister on the birth of your three promising sons & hope they will be a blessing to their parents.

My family join in a tender of love & best wishes for you my sister & children with

My Dear Borther yr Freely Affc

Abram Maury

PS I have for several years been near sighted from a sever spell of sickness wch I find very disagreeable. 

[envelope leaf]

James Maury Esqr  
Liverpool  
Favor'd by Mr John Wharton

Virga 15 Novr 1802  
Abm Maury

received 7 July 1803  
answered 6 May