---
title: Matthew Maury to James Maury, 16 January 1798Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Imgs 40-45
---

Jan. 16. 1798

My Dear Brother

Last Week yr Favor of the 21 of August came to Hand, & with it a Cheese & 10 Sacks of Salt, but no Trunk, nor does Col. Gamble in his letter say any thing to me about it, however it may have been lodged with him, & ~~been~~ forgotten - I most sincerely congratulate you & my sister on the Birth of your Son, & you have my most cordial Prayers, that he may prove a Comfort to you both in the Winter of your Days.

From you Silence with Respect to some Matters, I mentioned ~~to you~~ in one of my two last letters to you, which I am sure you would have noticed, had they got to Hand, I take it for granted they have miscarried. The last was written, I think in March 97, & the other some time in the Fall before. In one of these, I gave you a very particular Account of the Situation of yr Connnexions on this Side of the Water, I think it was in my last, which may probably have reached you; for I was informed, that it lay a great while in Fontaine's store for want of a Conveyance. Since which no material change has taken Place, that now occurs, except in our Mother - She last summer received a paralytic stroke in one Foot & knee. This, tho Slight, added to the Debility, common to old Age, for some Time disabled her from walking at all, tho she at length recovered so far as to be able to walk a little with the help of a stick, & I was in Hopes ~~she~~ would have entirely recovered, but she has lately declined in Strength, so much, that she cannot walk without the Assistance of some Person to support her. Her feet & legs are also much swelled, which the Doctors considers as the Prelude to a Dropsy. the Common Consequence of paralytic Strokes in persons of her advanced Age. So that I apprehend her stay with us will not be long. 

This circumstanced & no white Person on the Plantation with her but Matilda, it was proposed to her to break up housekeeping, go live with some of her Children, & consent to a Division of the Estate, which she readily came into - Her choice was to live with me; in which I most cheerful gratified her. She has now been here about 5 or 6 weeks; & I am happy in being able to inform  you that she appears much pleased with her situation - Nancy & Matilda are both with her, & pay so much Attention to her that I hope she will continue so, which is not commonly the Case with Persons of her Age, who have so long been in the Habit of dictating to families. 

I had for some considerable Time seen the neccesity of something of this sort being done & wished it. as I was convinced it would tend to the Comfort & Happiness of our Mother, but did not Chuse to propose it, but, as I was to be benefited by such a measure, some of the Parties concerned should suspect me having been [achiated] by interested motives in the Business. The Proposition came from Mr. Lewis & our Sisters Strachan & Lewis, when the were up on their Fall Visit.

The Division of the Whole of our Fathers Estate, except the money owing from the Sale of the Ivy Creek Land, took Place the 19 of December last. All the Legatees, except yourself were present. as a Compensation for 28 years Use of the Glebe & seven or eight yrs boarding & schooling my younger brothers the gave me some Stock, grain, & Plantation utensils to the Amount of about £240 - this Was a Proposition of my own, to which they all apparently acceded with great Cheerfulness. Tho I since find, that one of them, my near Neighbor, is extremely displeased with the whole Proceedings. Our Mother has for her support £45, the Interest of the Money arising from the sale of the Ivy Creek Land, ££55, which the the Legatees are jointly & severally bound to pay her. This I hope will be a very suffienct Fund for her Comfortable Maintenance. 

Great Changes have lately taken Place here - Sometime early in November, dyed my friend & Neighbor Capt Thos. Walker, as honest, friendly a Man as ever breathed - The Saturday three weeks after followed John the eldest of his two sons, a young Man (for his other Son is an Infant) & about three days ago dyed the youngest but one of his Daughters. And to complete the Afflictions & distresses of the poor Mother, her third Daughter,  two or three Days after the Death of her Brother run off with & got [man] whom the whole Family despise & detest. My Neighbor Tunstall & his family some Time in November moved to Kentucky - these events, together with the Remove of our Mother make a great Charm in the Neighborhood - Col Lindsey & myself being the only two left, of whom are called the *Old Standin* in this End of the Neighborhood.

Tom has been at College since October 96. In a letter I received from him a few Days ago he informs me he has determined to qualify himself for the Barr. He proposes leaving college next Fall & after reading Law a year or two then returning to afford the Law Lectures for a Season, provided his plan meets with he Approbation of his Friends. As for myself, I suppose it not a bad one, as I imagine much greater Benefit may be derived from the Law lectures after a previous study of the Science, than before. From some letters i have secured from Mr Madison, he seems to wish Tom to study Physic - that as to the Mode of getting his Bread, I have left to entirely to his own Choice, for sixpence of Observation both have convinced me that with Probity & Prudence a man will seldom fail of making a a reputable & comfortable Passage thro Life in almost any Line of Business; & without these Qualities he will do it none. These Qualities I hope the lad possess the Professors speak faborably of him. 

In my last letter I mentioned Millys Marriage. To this I had no other Objection than the near Relationship of the Parties for I think Mr. Fry a very worthy Man - they have a fine Son. This makes the fifth Grandchild I have. Our niece Polly, I think has also married a respectable Man - the Nephew of John Hay, who formerly lived in this Country, & whom you remember well.

We are extremely anxious here to know the Event of our Envoys Mission to Paris. Various & contradictory are the Accounts we have had of their reception - some telling us that the [milng] Powers in France have refused to treat with them, & that they are on their Return Home; others, that they have discovered a very pacific Disposition towards the united States, & that there is not a Doubt of Differences being amicably adjusted. To me, who am of neither Party & am a Lover of Peace, & think also, that most dreadful Consequences are to be apprehended from a Rupture with Rance, this latter Intelligence is truely pleasing But at this Distance from the Scene of Action we know not what to believe; for I believe no authentic Accounts have yet been received from the Envoys themselves, & no confidence is to be put in Intelligence from my other Quarters so totally do our country men seem blinded & led away by Party Spirit!

This is so prominent a [Feeling] in America, that it strikes almost every Foreigner of observation at first view, & one of [Distraction] is said ironically to have confessed his Suprise at finding scarcely any Americans in this Country; for that almost all the Inhabitants he had seen were either French or Englishmen. A Severe Reflections this, & the moreso, as it was too true. I observe in some of the last Papers, an Invasion of England is much talked of. Should this event take Place, such we are taught to believe are the Discontents among the People, the public Debt so enormous & the taxes so heavy, that I should imagine very serious consequences are to be apprehended from it. 

I wish I had had a few Kegs Tob to have sent you this year, but I have planted none for three or four years, past, for my Land being poor & having a very large Family, it is with Difficulty I can raise Bread & meal enough. If i do this I am perfectly content; & if I do no, which is sometimes the Case, I not repine. Tis probable I may have some Tob to send you next year. I have some People on the Glebe, where I shall try to make some - there is yet on the Tract some very good land for the Purpose, which I do not mean to spare. For I am told, that our Assemble  (which is now setting have last an Act for the Sale of all the Glebes and Churches in such Parishes as are vacant, & also of those that are occupied, on the demise of the present Incumbents (however it is thought it will no pass the Senate). In this Case it will be well to make hay while the sun shines -  I last Spring desired Fontaine to [ready] you for the Salt you sent me the year before If he has not done it; for I know he sometimes neglects these Things, I will be obliged to you to send me by the first opportunity the amount of what I owe you & it shall be paid as soon as possible. 

Nancy desires me to tell you, tho' she had written you two or three letters since receiving one from you, she wished & intended to have written you & had some some Talk with you about the Boy; but Matters have turned out so, that she has not had it in her Power - She with the rest of the Family here all join in a Tender of best affections to you & my Sister with yr affection Brother

Matthew Maury

P.S. Do send me Knox art of Speaking & Reading

[envelope leaf]

Mr. James Maury  
Mercht  
by Capt Dangerfield  
Liverpool

Received the 27th Mar 98 and 15 Apl
