---
title: James Maury to unknown, 12 January 1794. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888, Box 2, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va.
---

Liverpool 12 Jany 1794

My dear friend!

Mrs. Maury has, for some time, been alarmingly ill, &, at this moment, is in a very critical situation. I offer this as some excuse for being so long in returns for your last Letters.

After what I had already suffered for my Connexion with A.M. &C tis sickening indeed to see the Demand you make. I hope to be in London ere long, when I will endeavor somehow to accommodate or compromise with you. in the Interim I will be obliged to you for a copy of Mr Days State of the Transactions save the payment of the £100 (of which I believe I advertized Fontaine previously to our own arrangement on this subject) I have no Recollection of ever having mentioned any.

I see with Concern you still complain of F.M. I cannot help it - he must answer for himself.

From Mr. Anderson's Last Letters I hope Wash is better than when you wrote. Received some Tobo this Summer from Mr. Stevenson, but ~~have allready understood that~~ the appropriate of the proceeds ~~were to be otherwise appropriated Nevertheless if you desire it I shall have no Objection to~~ has already been fixed. There is a Vessell now waiting for a wind to proceed to Rappahannock - probably there may be others, but as yet I know of none. It depends much on the Times.

Yes, my friend, we are truly Soujourners wherever we be in this world, and [illegible] it would be well not to set our Hearts so particularly on this or that sport of it; yet, my poor wife has spent such a wretched Seven years here that it is but natural for us to desire ~~much~~ the More to return & dwell among our own people.

I am truly your friend.

J Maury