---
title: Matthew Maury to James Maury, November 8, 1794. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888, Box 2, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va
---

Nov 8 1794

A few Weeks ago I received My Dear Brother's Letter, communicating the melancholy News of the Death of My Sister - You will believe me when I assure you I sympathise with you in the most feeling manner, & am impressed with every tender Emotion, which such a Dispensation naturally tends to raise in us, when those are the subjects, whom we love & esteem. These, however, are Events which we must all count upon in this troublesome World & which it behoves us to bear with Fortitude & Resignation, and I trust yours, which has been so often fixed in other instances, did not fail you on the present trying Occasion!

Doctor Walker Yesterday Morning paid his last debt to Nature, after an Indisposition of 6 or 7 days. This is an Event, which has long been expected, & his Removal I hope will prove a happy change for, from his extreme infirmity & debility he enjoyed but little comfort in this World.

Your other Friends & Connections in this Quarter are all well; particularly our good Mother, who walked down here yesterday, & walked home again this evening - Abram & his Wife have both been ill, but are getting Well again - It fell to our Brother Ben's Lot to march with a Detachment of Troops, called on from this state to assist in suppressing some defactory Members of the Community in the Neighborhood of Pitsburg; but I expect he will shortly be at Home, as the Matter is likely to be accommodated without Bloodshed - I dont Doubt, but you have heard of this Affair, probably much exaggerated.

I thank you for your kind attention to & Enquiry after the Boys - James has been in this Neighborhood ever since the last of June - He came up to do some writing Business for his Uncle Frank & to adjust the old Gentleman's Accounts- this at least was the ostensible Reason, but these at one was to divert his Attention from a young Lady in town, to whom Fontaine supposed he was paying his Addresses. I hope the plan has succeeded - It was a Daughter of our Friend Mr. Duncanson. He was to have returned in September, but was,, about that Time, very severely attacked with the Bilious Fever, which reduced him very low; & since his recovery I have not thought it prudent for him to return, till the season is more healthy. He sets out tomorrow. Since his stay here I have been very attentive to his Conduct & cannot say I have discovered any vicious trait in it - He has too much Lively & Giddiness in his constitution, this I hope will wear off. I observe when he is engaged in Business he is very attentive to it. Fontaine, if he is candid, which I have no Doubt of, seems pleased with him on the whole, notwithstanding some Excentricities he is Guilty of at Times.

Tom is still with me - Unless I am mistaken or partial he is a Lad of an excellent Disposition, & respectable Talents. Bishop Madison spent two or three days with me this Fall in a Late Visitation thro' this Part of his Diocese - He recommended sending him to the University next Fall, when he will be 16 years old, but 17 I think will be early enough to trust him in such a Place as Wmsburg. I think I mentioned in a letter to you last spring, that his Uncle Frank had proposed to me to take him with him to Philadelphia this Fall, & letting him spend the winter in the University there - this I approved of as Frank proposed his living with him; but after being on the spot & making the necessary Observations & Inquiries, he thought no great Advantages would be derived from the scheme, so it has been declined.

Matt is bound to Mr Tunstall to learn the Carpenter's Trade - He is much pleased with his Business, & his Master says, conducts himself very discretely - my other Children are all living with me yet, tho' Betsy leaves me tomorrow to spend a Year with her Aunt Strachan. Our good Sister Nancy is still with me & superintends my domestic affairs - This I consider as one of the greatest Blessings a kind Providence could bestow on me in my present situation of Life. I hope I shall always retain a grateful sense of it. As to myself I thank God I am generally tolerably hearty & in Good Healthy; but find the Infirmities of Age growing very fast on me. As to my Circumstances, I am not rich, nor likely to be so, but am independent, & have enough to live comfortably on, & this is rich enough.

And now let me ask you - have you succeeded so far as to think yourself rich enough? If this is the case I flatter myself it will not be long before we shall see you in Virginia - 