---
title: Matthew Maury to James Maury, 6 January 1797. ViU3888 Box 3, Images 6-10
---
Jan 6, 1797

My Dear Brother

Since my last two letters of yrs have come to hand, with the former came yr Present of the 'Stock buckle - for which I thank you, & shall endeavor to preserve it with all the care & Attention due to a Present from one, whom I so sincerely love & esteem - Yr other letter announced to me your Marriage an Event on which I most heartily congratulate you & my new Sister, & which I hope will prove a Source of much Happiness & comfort to both. In this Matter I think you have done right, at least ~~I think~~ you have acted, as think I should have done myself, in yr situation. But circumstanced as I am, such a Measure I think would be highly imprudent, & whilst our good Sister is kind enough to live with me, & take upon her the Charge of my domestic Affairs, I am pretty confident I shall not change my present Sitatution, unless I should be unfortunate enough to live to my Dotage, in which case I cannot be answerable for my conduct. 

I observe what you say of James & do confess myself under the highest obligations to you for the good attention you have paid to his interest. All I am afraid of is that he will not make a proper use of yr Tender to [?[ him, or entertain a sufficiently grateful sense of his obligations to you for them. Tho I flatter myself he may yet do well, for, from what I have ever seen or heard of him he appears to have a high sense of Honor, & I would fain hope that his Indiscretions have been the Effect rather of Wildness & want of Reflection than of any fixed vicious Propensities. I have heard nothing from him since yr letter in which you mentioned his being in France & that you expected he would shortly after his return embark, either for the East Indies or Georgia. I am very anxious to hear from him.

I last Fall placed Tom at Wm & Mary for (after making all the Inquiry & getting the best information I could) I thought there was as fair if not a fairer prospect for his Improvement  

[need to re-photograph page: contains family news]

In your last letter you desire to know what the old Lady said on Occasion of Mrs Alcock's Marriage! She reprobated it in the strongest terms; upon being told, that Mrs Alcock which was really the truth had some little time after being married that she would by all means advise her also to marry, if she should have a good offer - the Old Lady lost all Patience & got into a violent wrath with what she called her Nonsense - the poor old Lady (Mrs. Alcock) dyed in August last - this has been no bad speculation to the Capt - To from a state of total Dependence, he has become quite independent by this event.

My daughter Milly was married about 10 days ago to Harry Fry junr - a Match by no means agreeable to me - my only objection was their near relationship; for, as to the young man himself, I do not know one whom I think more amiable & respectable - He appears to be the second edition of Old Harry, whom you know well. Matilda & Matt are gone over with them to Mr. Fry's to keep the wedding there. Matt expresses great obligations to you for the Chest of Tools you sent him, but as he is not a ready Scribe, I suppose were he here he would hardly make his acknowledgements by letter. I am a little disturbed about this Lad at present - his Master has become a most abandoned sot, & therefore not fit to take upon him the Charge of Boys - However he at present seems determined to move to Kentucky in March- should he do so I shall be relieved. 
	
The whole of our Uncle Abrams Children (except one who is settled in Georgia) removed to that Country last fall, & our Aunt with them. Mr. Hornsby & his Family also ~~removed~~ set out thither last Fall; & about the same time Aaron Fontaine with the quarter Part of his. The two latter, owing to the want of water first & afterwards to the Ice, are still at Redstone, & I suppose will continue there till the spring - We have had one of the longest Droughts I ever remember at this Season, having had but one slight rain since the 15 of October, & added to this the severest dry frost for about 6 Weeks. The Weather now & for two or three Weeks past has been nearly if not quite as cold as the Winter you returned from France. This Circumstance, I apprehend will prove extremely injurious, if not fatal to the Crops of Wheat - I have never heard any thing from Col Gamble about the [sall] tho I took the Liberty a few days ago of drawing on him for it - I will settle with Fontaine for it. I have spoken to him about the Money I desire hum to pay you last year, & he tells me it is done.

I congratulate you on having wiped off all yr old scores and also on the prospect of yr acquiring Wealth, for I am [made] a confidence, should it be the case, you will make a good Use of it. This is not the Case with yr Brother Matthew: for he is poorer than he has been several years - my School has really brot me in Debt for the two last Years owing to the little value of Money among us. I have this year raised to L40 whether the Price will remedy the Evil Time will determine

Tho lank in Purse I am no in Body, for I am stouter than you ever saw me - weighting about 160 - (thank God) in as good Health as I ever was; tho partly owing to the Habit of being confined to the House by my School but more to the effects of Age I suppose, I find every day less Inclination for Business which requires active to [daily] Exertions in Consequence of which you may be sure my Plantations affairs do not go on so well as formerly.

Oh! I had like to have to forgot one Piece of News, which is that our Brother Walkers eldest Daughter is to be married shortly to a Mr. Hay of Richmond - a Nephew of John Hay, who formerly lived at the [Scoarghysford] - I have once seen him - he appears to be a dour young Man, & I understand has some Property - Well, I'll stop here & should any thing occur before I send this to Fredburg I will go on which i need to be in a hurry about as the Rivers are all frozen up.

Feb 3. Since writing the above received yr letter announcing the  Death of my poor boy James - Tis the Will of heaven, & must be submitted to! And as I have no been heretofore altogether untutored in the School of Affliction, hope I shall bear it as I ought - With a Tender of best affections to my sister, believe yr affectionate and afflicted Brother

Matt Maury

[Envelope leaf]

Virginia Jany 6 1797  
Rev Matth Maury

Mr James Maury Liverpool
 recd 12 Septr and 8 Decr
