---
Charles Yates to James Maury, 30 June 1798. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Imgs 63-
---

Virginia Fredericksburg June 30th 1798

Dear Sir

Referring to my last April 8th I have now to mention nonreceipt of your favour by the St. Taminy - Capt. Basset Daingerfield tells me that our good friends and Allies, by one of their Pirattical agents plundered hum of his Letter Bag, for which and other enormitys, John Adams & Co are I hope steeping a rod in piss - Capt. D. says further that you had some Mutton Hams for me which would be forwarded by the Molly bound direct for Rapahanock, I yet hear nothing of her, and as there are many of the bare arsed rascals upon the coast she may have fallen into their hands; if so I wish my Mutton my have the effect of Ratsbane on them. At all times I have expressed my dislike of the French, and now I dislike all who like them.  I had put by a few Berkley Hams for my Friends but some apprehension that they might happen to be stop'd by the frog eating scoundrels I ~~had~~ gave out the design of sending them, till Capt Daingerfield kindly offered taking them in charge, and I hope will deliver them safe to you, as I think before he sails the United States Cruisers will have driven off our Coasts all the plundering Villains, and on yours I suppose there will not be much danger. List below will be your guide for their disposal.

You may have heard of Adam Hunters Death, a happy change, since we have lost Mr. William Harvey and his Espoused and I am much concernd to add that our very good friend & my old and much valued acquaintance Jas Somerville hath been taken from us. These losses Capt. D tells me you are repairing - on my enquiry after the young Consul he gave a favorable account of him and added there was little doubt of a further increase.

Your obliged & faithful friend

Chs Yates

PS - I had omitted above to thank you for a Box Lemons sent my by your brother Fontaine, who tells me they were from Capt Callahan after this mark of holding a place in your remembrance permit me to add they were recd in the same condition as S Martins Beer - they were [Hipkinised]


Mrs Mary - 2
Mr Henry Parry - 1
Capt. B. Daingerfield - 1
Saml Martin Esqr - 10 & Bundle Phila Papers

James Maury esqr


James Maury Esq  
American Consul  
Liverpool

p Hannah

Virginia [Fred] 20 June 1798  
Chas Yates Esqr