---
Thomas W. Maury to James Maury, 7 August 1802. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Box 3, images, 101-104
---

Albemarly Virga 7th August 1802

Gratitude certainly requires a conduct different from that which I have pursued towards you. But I have been impressed with an opinion that the commencement of an epistolary correspondence on my part, would be a conduct nearing too much on appearance of arrogance. Would it be assuming too much for me to say that I think you out to have sanctioned the communication, by making a commencement yourself. By a spirit of [punctilio] I confess I have been actuated in reluctantly refraining from making an attempt to establish a correspondence between us. But your Last letter to my Father gave me some encouragement to being. IN it you expressed some surprise at not having heard from me. With this opening, I determined to avail myself of the first opportunity which would put it in my power to answer the enquiries which the same Letter contained. Such an one has at length occurred. My friend J. M. Morris long since determined to reside some years in Edinburgh, for the purpose of availing himself of the advantages to be derived from the Medical school in that place. He will in a few days bid adieu to his friends, and intends to sail immediately to Liverpool. But tho the long expected event has occurred, I am at a loss for matter, wherewith to interest or amuse you. I suppose an absence of 15 or 18 years has a great measure lessen'd your attachment to your native country, and has made you more indifferent as to what is going on in it. But could you with indifference witness the wretched acts and devices by means of which ambitious and designing men had nearly plunged this favourite asylum of Liberty into irretrievable ruin? What sensation can be more disagreeable to a land of Heroes and patriots, who have lately recovered from the wounds, which the arduous acquisition of a happy independence inflicted, than those which arise from seeing a small number of the [share] in their sufferings, to whom they had entrusted their hard-earned rights, basely barter them for their own aggrandisement. The [virtuous] part of the American people have lately experienced sensations of this sort. But Tyrants generally foil their prospects by grasping at too much. By that propensity, our country has been rescued from the evils with which it was threatened. The members of the late administration supposed that the mildness of their first measures had lulled every fear and suspicion of the people, and grasped at once at as much power as they thought sufficient for their purposes, and thus excited apprehensions & alarm on the part of the people. By this means an entire change of men and manners has been effected, which its advocates think adequate to the task of administering a remedy to every evil of which the complained. 

I feel a reluctance to answering the enquiries you make respecting myself I have for some time been pursuing a course of study, whose object is to qualify me for  the duties which the profession of a Lawyer requires. But numberless obstacles have prevented the attainment of my object at as early a period as I expected, and should under ordinary circumstances have required. But I believe I shall in the course of a month or two, put a period to my labours by applying for a License. I have not yet determined in what [part] of the country I shall fix myself.

permit me to offer an apology for this [short] and hast letter, and to hope that it will not be perused with the eye of a critic, but with that of a mild monitor correcting the imperfect production of his young & inexperienced pupil. J.M. Morris gave us so short a notice of his departure as to preclude the possibility of my saying more. 

Will your situation ever admit of your gratifying me with a Letter? It it will I shall be much pleased. 

With best wishes for my Aunt & Little Cousins

I am yrs affectionately

Thos W Maury

[envelope leaf]

James Maury Eqsr  
Liverpool  
J. M. Morris Esqr

Albemarle Virginia 7 Augst 1802  
Thos W Maury

recd 7 Octr  
ansd 22 Novr