---
Ann Maury to James Maury, 5 August 1802. Papers of James Maury, 1769-1917, Accession #3888 and #3888-a, Special Collections, University of Virginia Library, Charlottesville, Va. Box 3, images 105-106.
---

August 5th 1802

My dear Brother

Your letter of 31st Octr I have receiv'd, and ought long since to have attended to it, but you know we can't always do as we wish - which is the case in this instance.

Our Brother is speaking for himself, and will give you the information you requested of me - God grant it may answer the purpose intended. The spectacles arrived safe, and nothing but a pr of young eyes cou'd suit me better for them you'll accept my best thanks. I am glad to hear your eyes hold out so well, and hope they will continue to do so, as long as you have a use for them.

Our sister Matilda was the only one of the four travellers on whom those efficacious waters had the desir'd effect. she enjoy'd perfect health all the winter and spring, but as the season for visiting those watering places approach'd she began to complain again. Just by way of an excuse (I believe) for another trip over the Ridge, where she was quite delighted with the novelty of the various scenes, that attracted her notice as she pass'd through the country - very different, I don't doubt from what they were, when you frequented that part of the Globe. However, as it is not convenient for her to make a second visit to those springs, I dare say she will soon get well at home - a pain in her foot (the gout I suppose) prevents her writing you by this opportunity, but by way of shewing you that she is more industrious than formerly, sends a Bedquilt of her own work with a request that my sister will accept it. it has been done nearly five years, but the want of a safe conveyance has prevented her sending it sooner - she will therefore excuse the white's being a little tarnish'd.

I congratulate you my dear Brother on the recovery of my good sister, and wellfare of those little fellows who all contribute so much to your happiness - and of course to mine.

 This will be handed you by your name-sake and old acquaintance Mr. J. M. Morris, by whom I intended writing you a longer letter, but a sick family and his sailing sooner than I expected prevents my doing so. I will therefore refer you to him (who you will find very communicative) for particulars relative to your friends in this quarter. 
 
The family joins in love and best wishes for you all with

your affec Sister

A Maury

Mr John Walker had a great granddaughter born last December you may now make proposals of marriage for your boys I am AM. 