---
title: Stevens Thomson Mason to James Maury, August 9, 1794. Maury Family Papers, Special Collections Research Center, Swem Library, College of William and Mary.
---

Dumfries Aug 9th 1794

My dear Sir

I have some time since written to you on the subject of a division of Mr. Armistead's Negroes but no answer has yet come to hand, I understand from our Brother Robert who has had the management of the Estate that the hire of the present year will discharge all the debts, we are therefore anxious to hear from you on the subject of a division Some person should be appointed to attend to the business for you, and if there are any particular negroes that either you or Mrs. Maury have a preference to we request that you will communicate it to us, I have understood from Mr. Fontaine Maury that your part of the Negroes are to be sold the separation of connections that this would occasion seems to give uneasiness to the Families of the family here,  but if you have come to such a determination, I should be glad to know your terms as to price and time of payt as possibly we may be able to purchase them, should you conclude to hire you may command my services in the business and I know not any place where they would hire better than in Loudon.

Shall we promise ourselves the pleasure of ever seeing you in this Country again? We have anxiously expected that every Autumn would bring you back to us, but that event seems no nigher, and we can now scarce even hear from you, I have written several letters to you tho' not so often as I ought, but get none from you, do my Friend let us be better correspondents in future.

There has lately been a tumult in the back parts of Pennsylvania in opposition to the Excise Laws a military force was employed by Government several lives were lost on both sides but the Rioters proved too strong, and the opposition has become very formidable.

The French Cause becomes daily more popular with us and the British Government more obnoxious we expect to be forced into a war with them an idea which is becoming less abhorrent to Americans than heretofore.

I had a few days ago the addition of a daughter to my family which makes our number six, three of each sex, and one of each we have lost. tell my sister that if she will come to Virginia to live I will give her a little Girl. Kiss her cheeks and eyes for me, I leave you her lips until I can get hold of them in proof person.

Yours affectionately

Ste Thon Mason

P.S. Do let me hear from you before the 1st Jany if possible
