---
Mary Armistead to James Maury, October 22, 1795. Maury Family Papers, Special Collections Research Center, Swem Library, College of William and Mary.
---

Raspberry Plain Oct ye 22 1795

My Dear Sir!

I never have had an opportunity of writing to you since the receipt of your Letter untill now; yours of July ye 25, to my Daughter Mason, came safe to hand. I am much pleased to hear you are well, of continuance of Health and eveyr other blessing to you, I ardently pray for.

My low State of Health last Fall and Winter prevented my being informed of the very distressing contents of your letter. The loss of her, whom I shall never cease to deplore. Altho I endeavor to bear it with Fortitude and resignation,a tis our Duty so do, and rest satisfied with the Hope, e'er long of meeting with her, in that blest place, where distress and sorrow can never, never, enter.

I wished exceedingly My Dear Mr Maury long since to have written you and inform'd you with respect to several circumstances, I made no doubt you were anxious to know; but have found myself unequal to the task. Our removal from Louisa to Loudon last Winter, prevented our complying with the request of that good woman, My Dear and much lamented Daughter, in depositing her remains beside her Father, It shall be done All as was requested as soon as is practicable. a variety of circumstances put it out of my power to do so as soon after her remains came as we were about that time removing our Family to Loudon, some time after which, before Bob fixed on a place of Residence. he has at length done so about 15 Mile from Raspberry Plain, at which place as soon as the Weather will permit, we mean to deposit the last remains of my dear Relatives that have gone before me; and where I hope my lay myself.

We are informed the Tomb Stone is safely landed at Fredericksburg, your letter which accompanied it I have not received.

It will allways give me the greatest satisfaction My Dear Sir to hear of your welfare. I beg you to continue writing to me, by every opportunity. Bobby and Betsey join me in most Affectionate Regards to you - Accept my warmest affection and gratitude and believe me your Affectionate Mother in-law

Mary Armistead