---
James Maury to Elizabeth Lewis, 12 November 1800. Maury Family Papers, Special Collections Research Center, Swem Library, College of William and Mary. Box 1, Images 104-8
---

Liverpool 12 Novr 1800

I thank you, my dear Sister, for your very affectionate letter which reached me in the [summer] & was dated 13th March - in answer to what you are pleased to say of my being so much in your thoughts, I can with the strictest truth say the same on my part with respect to you, as well as all those who are as near, & as dear, to me. Nor have I yet abondonned the Idea of paying you all a Visit. More unlikely things have come to pass.

I am particularly obliged to my kind Mr Anderson for the friendly attention he paid to the Request I made him, previous to his Departure, of seeing as many of my dear Connexions as he could - I am only afraid he has been partial in his account of me to them. 

I am greatly pleased to have such an Account of our Nephew William, to whom my affc Remembrance. What are his Views & Intentions? 

I have just received a ltr from our Brother Fontaine & tho he does not expressly say so, yet it appears to me from what he does say that he has lost his wife. I sympathize with him most sincerely. He mentions what is also particularly afflicting to me that our excellent Brother Matthew was in a very dangerous way. I ardently pray that his apprehensions be not [assured] but until I hear further I must be in a very painful suspence.

On the 29th September your sister presented me with a third son, who with his Mother & two Brothers is very well. I have named him Matthew. 

I wrote lately to your good man to whom and yourself Mrs M joins me in best wishes.

Your afc Brother

James Maury

Mrs Elizabeth Lewis  
at Mr James Lewis's  
near Fredericksburg  
Virginia

