---
M Bold to Margaret Maury, 10 November. Maury Family Papers, Special Collections Research Center, Swem Library, College of William and Mary.
---

Friday 10th Novr

Dear Margt 

I have for days past thought of writing to you by domestic engagements have prevented me. We are, as William has already reported, very well. Ann is happy, and in high spirits, notwithstanding the contentions among the Cousinhood - Yesterday & today their play has been confined to the House, the ground is so damp, that I consider it not well to be out much. We have had rather favorable accounts of you through Mr Bigland, but I wish to hear that you are quite well, and are laying in a stock of comfort for the Winter. The Hotel, I shou'd imagine wou'd be nearly deserted and the place altogether gloomy enough, at least it must be so to Mr M who is not so partial as [textloss] to Buxton. I have not heard of Rutson since Wednesday he was then, Mr Hattersley said doing very well. We have young Ashhurst staying with us to whom I have been strongly recommending Devonshire air for the Winter, he looks better than he did at the time he went to the Isle of Man, but he is still consumptive and feebly. He is a clever young man, but will never again I think exercise his abilities. Mrs J [Wakend tells] me in her last letter that she will write to you at your return home. Your Cask of Apples, I saw, & advised Mr Hattersley to wipe every one &c - they had not suffer'd near so much as mine, and are fine fruit. Have you fix'd your day to leave Buxton? Jim, I hope, is as well as he was when you left Rodney St. Mr Ashhurst is return'd from a short walk &, as I only am here to entertain him, I must bid you adieu, with [far]  love and best wishes - Yrs truly

M Bold

James Maury Esqr  
Centre Hotel  
Buxton

[written on address side] 2 ox of Poppy heads in a Quart of Water  untilreduced to a pint - foment with it warm