---
James Maury consul to Margaret Ruston Maury, 16 April 1814. Maury Family Papers, Special Collections Research Center, Swem Library, College of William and Mary. Box 1, Folder 45
---

Cheltenham 16 Apl 1814

Mr Gladstone gave me your letter yesterday. I thank you for it, as I also do for the extended furlough you have had the goodness to give me: possibly, I may be somewhat beyond the time limited previous to my leaving Rodney Street; but I have no expectation of being here to length you & Mr Hunter predict for me.

Mr Lane & the writer go on very well. I told him this morning his complexion had commenced *improving* and I think my own also. The waters agree perfectly well with both of us. Mr M Gladstone told me yesterday he had been two days & nights on the road without sleeping as many hours. This morning I saw him at the well. He told me he had slept unusually long last night. What a distressing complaint! 

I join our Children most cordially in regretting their disappointment. Tell James & Ann I thank them for their letters & their names. Altho' the climate of this place might not agree with you, yet I think the waters would suit you much. I shall bring you the *Cheltenham Guide*, which will paint out all the complaints the waters are good for & [cure away]. I had no idea of the ~~wen~~ variety of the waters & of their properties. We rise after 7 (I before 7) walk to the wells in about 15 minutes - then taking two pretty large tumblers allowing an interval between them of about 20 minutes which are employed in walking; for which exercise the accommodations are very good. We [thence &] Buxton breakfast (with Buxton appetite) about 10. Lunch at 1 or 2 - dine at 5. Tea a 7 & [supper], I think, if you [whire]; but few or none here take supper. I have not taken any. Our party has [generaly] been 15 a 18 - All of the genteel sort - sociable & civil.

This morning I was accosted (by my name) at the Well- Could only  recollect the gentleman by face. I was rather embarrassed at being obliged to ask his Name. It Mr. Butler, our cidevant president at Buxton. He enquired of you most particularly, poor fellow! I think he has much fallen off. 

I have made much acquaintance with Mrs Sainson & her son Gabriel. She indeed is most admirably adapted to a watering place seems to enjoy it much & takes much pains to make her acquaintances happy. She is indeed a great acquisition to our party; the' does not live at the same house we are in.

I see Matts School fellow George Newton who really is near 6 feet high. He tells me ( and he is on the 4th form also) that he must be at Eton this day week. 

17th left unfinished for any unforeseen occasions. Nothing to add but a *rainy morning* for the first time. 

Yrs J Maury

[in a different hand] James Maury the "old Consul"


[envelope leaf]

Mrs Maury  
Rodney Street  
Liverpool
