---
Matthew Maury to James Maury, February 3, 1814. Maury Family Papers, Special Collections Research Center, Swem Library, College of William and Mary. (folder 40)
---

Eton College, Thursday Feby 3rd 1814

Dear Father

I am now going to fulfil my promise by giving you an account of my journey which I liked very well. We were at Bentons before the coach. At the old swan Leigh got in, we proceeded without any impediment through Prescot, Warrington, Knitsforest, Breareton Green, &c, where there was scarcely any snow. We changed coaches at Stone, after which Place as far as Birmingham, the snow varied from 3 to four feet. We were somewhat in a dilemma here, for the innkeeper to whom Mr. Ewart had wrote to, to get places in the Coach, was not able to procure them having not applied in time, But I do not understand the matter, however, we slept here & had good beds, yes, & were obliged to take two post chaises, & proceed, we managed to get a stage Coach at the next town, but they would not  let us have for more than the next stage, which being Stratford, went went to see the house were Shakespear was born, we proceeded with two chaises to the next town, where we were strongly advised by the innkeeper to take four horses ~~but we declined it~~ on account of the badness of the roads, but we declined it, the snow was very deep, reaching above the chaise window & the roads so very heavy, that we got out twice and walked, the snow was not all cut through, although there were, at the distance of about every three miles, sixty or seventy men digging it out, & in this case the road was carried through the fields where, curious as it may seem, the snow was not above two or three inches deep, except in one place where it exceeded any we had as yet met with, the next stage but one was Oxford where we slept. We here again got a Coach, which carried us as far as Slough, which is 3 miles of this Place, from whence one of our party (Swainson) having left us, we took only one Post Chaise, and arrived safe here. I am not to be placed untill the end of this week, the first time I was in the chapel was on Monday, which I thought was most elegant. When did you receive my letter of Sunday. I think we are going to have a continuation of the frost what is your opinion. I am very well, & hope you are all the same. Mr Ewart left us on Sunday evening proceeded to Mr Birts & thens to London. How are you off, with regard to water, I think that when it does thaw that we shall have a great flood here; for even now a small book here called Barnspool has risen so much that it has flowed over the fields. I like my tutors &c very well. The Chapel is the finest edifice I ever was in, the floor of which is composed of squares of white & black marble alternately. Give my love to my Mother, Brothers, & Sister. I remain

Dr Father Yr Affc Son

Matthew Maury

[envelope leaf]

James Maury Esqr  
Rodney St  
Liverpool