---
Mary Armistead to James Maury, February 1, 1796. Box 1, Folder 10. Maury Family Papers, Special Collections Research Center, Swem Library, College of William and Mary.
---

Raspberry Plain Febr ye 1st 1796

My Dear Sir

I wrote you a long Letter in Octr which I hope has since reached you and found you in good health a continuance of that and every other blessing to you I ardently pray for. I hope My Dear Mr Maury you write to me by every opportunity which I assure you, will be a great satisfaction to me.

I have the pleasure to inform you, we are all well, except the Children who have the Hooping-Cough, tho in a very slight manner, and appear not to mind at all.

Mr Mason, Polly, and their Eldest Daughter are in Philadelphia, where I expect they will continue until the Spring, they have left some of their children in my care, which is the cause of my remaining at this place during the Winter. I send this letter to Philadelphia to go from thence in the New-York Packet which I hope will give it a safe and speedy conveyance to you.

I intended writing to you some time since, respecting the division of Mr Armistead's Estate, which took place the 1st of January; your Br Mr Fontaine Maury was here at the time, who I make no doubt will inform you particularly respecting it and all things were conducted on our part entirely to your satisfaction, as it was our wish and intention they should. 

In the arrangement of the Negroes, a Woman by the name of Corinna and 3 Children, which I very much wishd to have remaind with me, fell to you. she was my Cook, and the only one I had also a favorite Servant in the Family. I should therefore be much obliged to you to exchange for her, one of equal value, or for me to purchase herself and Children; these proposals I intended making Mr. F. Maury but he did not give me an opportunity of doing so, as he went away before I could have the matter settled to my satisfaction. Mr. Mason and myself have since written him on the subject by have recd no answer he does not appear to care whither I am accomodated or not. should you My Dr Sir accede to the proposition I've made, will thank you to inform him or Mr. James Lewis as well as myself, that you do so otherwise they may not wish to dispose of her. 

I wish to inform'd as early in the spring as you possibly can respecting what I have mentioned to you.

Bob, Betsey, and the Children join in most Affectionate Regards to My Dr Mr Maury and believe me to be your most affectionate Mother in Law

Mary Armistead